Volume 43, Number 14 Pages 1545–1754 
July 16, 2018 Part I 
SALUS POPULI SUPREMA LEX ESTO “The welfare of the people shall be the supreme law.” 
John R. Ashcroft Secretary of State 
MISSOURI REGISTER 
 
The Missouri Register is an official publication of the state of Missouri, under the authority granted to the secretary of state by sections 536.015 and 536.033, RSMo 2016. Reproduction of rules is allowed; however, no reproduction shall bear the name Missouri Register or “official” without the express per- mission of the secretary of state. 
The Missouri Register is published semi-monthly by SECRETARY OF STATE 
John R. Ashcroft 
Administrative Rules Division James C. Kirkpatrick State Information Center 
600 W. Main Jefferson City, MO 65101 (573) 751-4015 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF CURTIS W. TREAT 
· MANAGING EDITOR 
AMANDA MCKAY 
· EDITOR 
VONNE KILBOURN 
· ASSOCIATE EDITOR 
MARTY SPANN 
· PUBLICATION SPECIALIST 
JACQUELINE D. WHITE 
· ADMINISTRATIVE AIDE 
ALISHA DUDENHOEFFER 
ISSN 0149-2942, USPS 320-630; periodical postage paid at Jefferson City, MO Subscription fee: $72.00 per year 
POSTMASTER: Send change of address notices and undelivered copies to: 
MISSOURI REGISTER Office of the Secretary of State Administrative Rules Division PO Box 1767 Jefferson City, MO 65102 
The Missouri Register and Code of State Regulations (CSR) are available on the Internet. The Register address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/moreg/moreg and the CSR is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/csr/csr. These websites contain rulemakings and regu- lations as they appear in the paper copies of the Registers and CSR. The Administrative Rules Division may be contacted by email at rules@sos.mo.gov. 
The secretary of state’s office makes every effort to provide program accessibility to all citizens without regard to disability. If you desire this publication in alternate form because of a disability, please contact the Division of Administrative Rules, PO Box 1767, Jefferson City, MO 65102, (573) 751-4015. Hearing impaired citizens should contact the director through Missouri relay, (800) 735-2966. 
  

MISSOURI REGISTER 
July 16, 2018 
PART I PROPOSED RULES 
Department of Agriculture 
Plant Industries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1549 Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development 
Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1563 
Department of Economic Development 
Public Service Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1567 
Department of Natural Resources 
Clean Water Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1596 
PART II 
Department of Natural Resources 
Hazardous Waste Management Commission . . . . . . . . . .1759 
Department of Mental Health 
Certification Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1934 
Department of Natural Resources 
Hazardous Waste Management Commission . . . . . . . . . .1935 
Petroleum and Hazardous Substance Storage Tanks . . . . .1938 
Department of Health and Senior Services 
Division of Senior and Disability Services . . . . . . . . . . .1938 Division of Regulation and Licensure . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1940 Division of Maternal, Child and Family Health . . . . . . .1940 Division of Injury Prevention, Head Injury Rehabilitation 
and Local Health Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1940 Missouri Senior Rx Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1941 
Safe Drinking Water Commission . . . . Solid Waste Management . . . . . . . . . . State Parks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Department of Public Safety 
Division of Alcohol and Tobacco Control 
Department of Social Services 
Family Support Division . . . . . . . . . . MO HealthNet Division . . . . . . . . . . . 
ORDERS OF RULEMAKING 
Department of Agriculture 
Animal Health . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . .1802 . . . . . . . . . . . .1892 . . . . . . . . . . . .1905 
. . . . . . . . . . .1915 
. . . . . . . . . . . .1917 . . . . . . . . . . . .1917 
Department of Social Services 
Family Support Division . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Department of Health and Senior Services 
Missouri Health Facilities Review Committee . DISSOLUTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
SOURCE GUIDES 
RULE CHANGES SINCE UPDATE . . . . . . . . EMERGENCY RULES IN EFFECT . . . . . . . EXECUTIVE ORDERS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . REGISTER INDEX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . .1919 Weights, Measures and Consumer Protection . . . . . . . . .1919 
Missouri Department of Transportation 
Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission . . . . .1919 
IN THIS ISSUE: 
Vol. 43 No. 14 Pages 1545–1986 
Department of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration 
State Board of Pharmacy 
IN ADDITIONS 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . .1943 
. . . . . . . .1944 . . . . . . . .1944 . . . . . . . .1945 
. . . . . . . .1949 . . . . . . . .1966 . . . . . . . .1967 
. . . . . . . .1969 
 
Register Filing Deadlines 
March 1, 2018 March 15, 2018 
April 2, 2018 April 16, 2018 
May 1, 2018 May 15, 2018 
June 1, 2018 June 15, 2018 
July 2, 2018 July 16, 2018 
August 1, 2018 August 15, 2018 
September 4, 2018 September 17, 2018 
October 1, 2018 October 15, 2018 
Register Publication Date 
April 2, 2018 April 16, 2018 
May 1, 2018 May 15, 2018 
June 1, 2018 June 15, 2018 
July 2, 2018 July 16, 2018 
August 1, 2018 August 15, 2018 
September 4, 2018 September 17, 2018 
October 1, 2018 October 15, 2018 
November 1, 2018 November 15, 2018 
Code Publication Date 
April 30, 2018 April 30, 2018 
May 31, 2018 May 31, 2018 
June 30, 2018 June 30, 2018 
July 31, 2018 July 31, 2018 
August 31, 2018 August 31, 2018 
September 30, 2018 September 30, 2018 
October 31, 2018 October 31, 2018 
November 30, 2018 November 30, 2018 
Code Effective Date 
May 30, 2018 May 30, 2018 
June 30, 2018 June 30, 2018 
July 30, 2018 July 30, 2018 
August 30, 2018 August 30, 2018 
September 30, 2018 September 30, 2018 
October 30, 2018 October 30, 2018 
November 30, 2018 November 30, 2018 
December 30, 2018 December 30, 2018 
Documents will be accepted for filing on all regular workdays from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. We encourage early filings to facilitate the timely publication of the Missouri Register. Orders of Rulemaking appearing in the Missouri Register will be published in the Code of State Regulations and become effective as listed in the chart above. Advance notice of large volume filings will facilitate their timely publication. We reserve the right to change the schedule due to special circumstances. Please check the latest publication to verify that no changes have been made in this schedule. To review the entire year’s schedule, please check out the website at www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/pubsched. 
 
HOW TO CITE RULES AND RSMO 
RULES 
The rules are codified in the Code of State Regulations in this system– 
Title Division Chapter Rule 
3 CSR 10- 4 .115 Department Code of Agency General area Specific area 
State Division regulated regulated Regulations 
and should be cited in this manner: 3 CSR 10-4.115. 
Each department of state government is assigned a title. Each agency or division in the department is assigned a division number. The agency then groups its rules into general subject matter areas called chapters and specific areas called rules. Within a rule, the first breakdown is called a section and is designated as (1). Subsection is (A) with further breakdown into paragraphs 1., subparagraphs A., parts (I), subparts (a), items I. and subitems a. 
The rule is properly cited by using the full citation, for example, 3 CSR 10-4.115 NOT Rule 10-4.115. Citations of RSMo are to the Missouri Revised Statutes as of the date indicated. 
Code and Register on the Internet 
The Code of State Regulations and Missouri Register are available on the Internet. The Code address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/csr/csr The Register address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/moreg/moreg These websites contain rulemakings and regulations as they appear in the Code and Registers. 
  
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Proposed Rules 
MISSOURI REGISTER 

Under this heading will appear the text of proposed rules and changes. The notice of proposed rulemaking is required to contain an explanation of any new rule or any change in an existing rule and the reasons therefor. This is set out in the Purpose section with each rule. Also required is a citation to the legal authority to make rules. This appears fol- lowing the text of the rule, after the word “Authority.” Entirely new rules are printed without any special symbol- 
ogy under the heading of proposed rule. If an existing rule is to be amended or rescinded, it will have a heading of proposed amendment or proposed rescission. Rules which are proposed to be amended will have new matter printed in boldface type and matter to be deleted placed in brackets. An important function of the Missouri Register is to solicit 
and encourage public participation in the rulemaking process. The law provides that for every proposed rule, amendment, or rescission there must be a notice that anyone may comment on the proposed action. This comment may take different forms. If an agency is required by statute to hold a public hearing 
before making any new rules, then a Notice of Public Hearing will appear following the text of the rule. Hearing dates must be at least thirty (30) days after publication of the notice in the Missouri Register. If no hearing is planned or required, the agency must give a Notice to Submit Comments. This allows anyone to file statements in support of or in opposition to the proposed action with the agency within a specified time, no less than thirty (30) days after pub- lication of the notice in the Missouri Register. 
An agency may hold a public hearing on a rule even though not required by law to hold one. If an agency allows comments to be received following the hearing date, the close of comments date will be used as the beginning day in the ninety- (90-) day-count necessary for the filing of the order of rulemaking. 
If an agency decides to hold a public hearing after planning not to, it must withdraw the earlier notice and file a new notice of proposed rulemaking and schedule a hearing for a date not less than thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the new notice. 
Proposed Amendment Text Reminder: Boldface text indicates new matter. [Bracketed text indicates matter being deleted.] 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 1—Organization and Description 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 2 CSR 70-1.010 General Organization. The director is amending 
sections (1) and (2). 
PURPOSE: This amendment updates the listing of programs and locations in the division. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: The secretary of state has determined that the publication of the entire text of the material which is incorporated by reference as a portion of this rule would be unduly cumbersome or expensive. This material as incorporated by reference in this rule shall be maintained by the agency at its headquarters and shall be made available to the public for inspection and copying at no more than the actual cost of reproduction. This note applies only to the ref- 
erence material. The entire text of the rule is printed here. 
(1) The Plant Industries Division is a regulatory and service agency of the Missouri Department of Agriculture and is subdivided into the following bureaus and functions: 
(A) The Bureau of Plant Pest Control, under the supervision of the state entomologist, is responsible for administering the following statutes: 
1. The Missouri Plant Law requires the state entomologist to make mandatory inspections of nurseries and nursery stock including woody plants and perennials. The Act also requires the state ento- mologist to stay abreast of serious plant pests; to make surveys for and to control the spread of especially serious plant pests; establish and enforce plant pest quarantines; provide inspection service and issue special certification for plants and plant parts to be shipped to foreign countries; and to issue special certification for plants, plant material and other regulated items being shipped from quarantined areas. [The forms used to administer this law are on file with the secretary of state.] Rules pertaining to the Missouri Plant Law are filed in Chapter 10 and Plant Law Quarantines are filed under Chapter 11 of this division; and 
2. The Missouri Apiary Law empowers the state entomologist to provide inspection of apiaries within the state and issue certificates on colonies found to be free of American and European foulbrood and other serious bee diseases. This inspection service is optional and must be paid for by the beekeeper receiving inspection. [The forms used to administer this law are on file with the secre- tary of state.] Rules pertaining to the Missouri Apiary Act are filed under Chapter 15 of this division; 
(B) The Bureau of Pesticide Control is responsible for administer- ing the following statutes: 
1. The Missouri Pesticide Registration Act requires the registra- tion of all pesticides distributed, sold or held for sale in the state of Missouri. Any pesticide is defined to be any substance intended for preventing, destroying, repelling or mitigating any insects, rodents, fungi, weeds or other forms of plant or animal life or viruses, except viruses or fungi on or in living men or other animals. The Act estab- lishes labeling requirements and sets penalties for violators. Inspections of retail dealers of pesticides are performed throughout the state to enforce compliance with this Act[. The forms used to administer this law are on file with the secretary of state]; and 
2. The Missouri Pesticide Use Act requires the certification and licensing of persons who apply pesticides for a fee. This includes pest control operators and aerial applicators, as well as other custom applicators of agricultural pesticides. The Act also requires the cer- tification of persons applying any pesticides which have been declared restricted due to its environmental impact. This group of pesticide applicators includes—farmers, called private applicators; government employees who apply pesticides in the course of their duties; and persons involved in research and experimental programs. Pesticide technicians are required to attain verifiable training and become licensed. Dealers of restricted use pesticides must also be licensed. The Act sets penalties for violations. [The forms used to administer this law are onfile with the secretary of state.] Rules pertaining to the Missouri Pesticide Act are filed under Chapter 25 of this division; 
(C) Bureau of Feed and Seed is responsible for administering the following statutes: 
1. The Missouri Commercial Feed Law provides for regulation of the feed industry through the registration of commercial feeds and commercial feed manufacturers. The Act requires accurate labeling of commercial feed ingredients. The feed control laboratory supports the work of the bureau by performing analytical tests to determine that protein, fat, fiber, minerals, salt, vitamin A, and drugs actually exist in the feed in the same proportions as guaranteed by the label. 
1549 

Page 1550 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
The Act gives the director of agriculture the authority to stop-sale any feed failing to meet the labeling claims. An inspection fee of ten cents (10¢) per ton is charged to manufacturers for commercial feed inspected under the program in Missouri. [The forms used to administer this law are on file with the secretary of state.] Rules pertaining to the Missouri Commercial Feed Law are filed under Chapters 30 and 31 of this division; and 
2. The Missouri Seed Law requires the licensing of wholesale and retail seed dealers and requires accurate labeling of agricultural and vegetable seed sold in this state. The statute also provides for personnel and laboratory facilities to determine that the label guar- antees for purity, germination, and noxious weeds are within toler- ances set by the Act. The test date for seed must be shown on the label and all seed must be sold within nine (9) months of testing. Stop-sales are placed on seed failing to meet the statutory require- ments. [The forms used to administer this law are on file with the secretary of state.] Rules pertaining to the Missouri Seed Law are filed under Chapter 35 of this division; [and] 
(D) The following statutes are also administered by the Plant Industries Division: 
1. [The Missouri Treated Timber Pro-ducts Law requires all companies selling timber products treated with preserva- tives to register with and be licensed by the Missouri Department of Agriculture. It requires branding of treated timber products and sets standards for retention of preserv- atives. Core samples of treated timber products are analyzed to determine compliance with the Act. The forms used to administer this law are on file with the secretary of state. Rules pertaining to the Missouri Treated Timber Products Law are filed under Chapter 40 of this division;] Hemp extract cultivation and production facility licensing and inspection authority is granted under section 261.265, RSMo. Rules pertaining to this chapter are filed under Chapter 14 of this division; and 
2. The Missouri Johnson Grass Control Eradication Law is a county option law which, after approval by a majority electorate of a county, allows the director of agriculture to appoint a county weed control board and requires the control and eradication of Johnson grass on both private and public lands within the county. Rules per- taining to the Missouri Johnson Grass Control and Eradication Law are filed under Chapter 45 of this division[; and]. 
[3. Horticultural inspection, both shipping point and receiving point, is performed through statutory authority granted the director of agriculture in the Missouri Standardization, Inspection and Marketing of Agricultural Products Act, Chapter 265, RSMo (1986). 
A. Shipping point inspections are provided to deter- mine that quality and grades of fresh fruit and vegetables being packed and shipped are as guaranteed by the produc- er. 
B. Receiving point inspections are made to determine that produce being received by distributors or brokers is of the quality and grade guaranteed by the producer. The Act also gives the director authority to establish grades of fresh fruit and vegetables. 
C. All cost incurred in providing shipping point and receiv- ing point inspections, other than supervisory costs, must be paid by companies receiving these services. The forms used to administer this law are on file with the secretary of state. Rules pertaining to this Act are filed under Chapter 50 of this division.] 
(2) The Plant Industries Division is administered by the divisional director and administrative staff with the main offices located at 1616 Missouri Blvd., Jefferson City, MO 65109. 
(A) The mailing address is: Plant Industries Division, Missouri Department of Agriculture, P[.]O[.] Box 630, Jefferson City, MO 65102. Telephone (314) 751-2462 or (314) 751-4310. 
(B) The following laboratories and outlying offices are functions of the Plant Industries Division: 
1. Feed Control Laboratory, [2634 C Industrial Drive] 115 Constitution Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri. Mail should be sent to P[.]O[.] Box 630, Jefferson City, MO 65102; and 
2. Seed Control Laboratory, [1616 Missouri Blvd.] 115 Constitution Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri. Mail should be sent to P[.]O[.] Box 630, Jefferson City, MO 65102[; and]. 
[3. Horticultural Inspection Office, Monett, Missouri. Mailing address is P. O. Box 511, Monett, MO 65708;] 
AUTHORITY: section 536.023, RSMo [1986] 2016. Original rule filed April 9, 1976, effective July 15, 1976. Amended: Filed April 16, 1990, effective Sept. 28, 1990. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivision more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 10—Missouri Plant Law Rules 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
2 CSR 70-10.080 Certification Requirements. The department is deleting sections (1)–(7) and renumbering those renumbered sec- tions. 
PURPOSE: This amendment removes regulatory inspections that are no longer relevant. 
PURPOSE: This rule sets forth the procedures for [specialized inspections and] certification of [all the following: bramble plants, strawberry plants, sweet potato seed, sweet potato plants, vegetable transplants, out-of-state growers of sweet potatoes and vegetable transplants, any plants not listed in the Missouri Plant Law and collected native wild plant mate- rial] native wild plant material, virus-free fruit tree nursery stock, and virus-free grapevine nursery stock. 
[(1) Applications for bramble plant certification must be made before May 15. Two (2) field inspections shall be required for the certification of bramble plants. The first inspection shall be made in the early spring prior to the time of fruit setting and the second inspection during early fall before freezing stops growth. 
(2) For the regular certification of strawberry plants, applica- tions must be made before May 15. Two (2) field inspections shall be required for certification. The first inspection shall be made in early spring prior to the time of fruit setting and the second inspection during early fall before freezing stops growth. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1551 

(A) Strawberries must be grown in a manner that will pre- vent mixing of different varieties. 
(B) A minimum of six feet (6’) must be maintained between rows of different varieties. 
(3) Virus disease certification of strawberry plants is provid- ed for under this section. Certified plants advertised or sold with reference to freedom from infectious viruses must meet one (1) of the three (3) following classifications: 
(A) Plants bearing the gold tag, registered strawberry virus certificate must be the increase directly from indexed plants at a state experiment station or other approved indexed source. Registered plants must have been grown under screen house or other insect-free conditions; 
(B) Plants bearing the blue tag, virus-free certificate must not be over two (2) generations (seasons) from state- approved plants indexed to be free of infectious viruses. State recommended and supervised virus control program must have been followed satisfactorily; and 
(C) Plants bearing the green tag, virus-free certificates must be from sources known and Missouri approved or cer- tified to be essentially free of all known infectious strawber- ry viruses. They must not be over three (3) generations (sea- sons) from state-approved indexed plants. The strawberry virus control program being currently recommended by the state must have been satisfactorily followed. 
(4) Sweet potato seed inspection is optional and any grower desiring to produce certified sweet potato seed must apply to the state entomologist not later than July 1 for inspec- tion. The following provisions and rules shall apply to these inspections and certifications: 
(A) Certified sweet potato seed requires three (3) inspec- tions—two (2) in the field and the third in storage. A sweet potato certificate will be issued to the grower after three (3) satisfactory inspections have been made. The first two (2) field inspections will be made thirty (30) days apart during the growing season. Each variety must be grown separately, row by row. Mixed varieties within the row will disqualify for certification. The presence of sweet potato weevil or more than two percent (2%) of the plants per acre infected with stem rot or wilt, or both, also will disqualify for certification. The sweet potato fields must be rogued free of diseased and off-type plants and be ready for inspection at the time requested. The third inspection will be made while the pota- toes are in storage. The storage house, hampers or other containers must be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected with formaldehyde solution containing one (1) pint of formalde- hyde to thirty (30) gallons of water, or other approved disin- fectants, before sweet potato seed is stored. Seed potatoes must be segregated and stored apart from table or ungraded stock; and 
(B) There are two (2) types of certification for seed sweet potatoes, the regular certification and the special, gold tag certification— 
1. Regular certification will be refused for any of the fol- lowing: when more than one percent (1%) of the sweet potatoes in a lot, inspected during the storage inspection, are found to be infected with black rot; when more than two percent (2%) of other diseases such as scurf, pox, charcoal rot and others are found in a lot, the entire lot will be refused; and when the total percent of infections for all dis- eases exceeds four percent (4%). If sweet potatoes and table stock are stored in the same house or other storage place, they must be in separate containers and separate lots. All seed potatoes must be arranged in a way that they are easily accessible for inspection; and 
2. Special, gold tag certification requires a zero (0) tol- 
erance for internal cork virus disease; a one-half percent (1/2%) tolerance on black rot disease; and a total of not more than one percent (1%) for all diseases. Potatoes carry- ing the special gold tag certificate must be in separate con- tainers and set apart from any other stock. 
(5) Sweet potato plant or slip inspection is optional and any person desiring to produce certified plants will be issued a certificate of sweet potato plant inspection by the state entomologist when the following provisions are met: 
(A) The grower shall furnish certified evidence of the ori- gin of his/her certified sweet potato seed and his/her plant beds must pass a satisfactory inspection for freedom from plant pests. In addition s/he must sign a statement that s/he has complied with the following requirements: 
1. That s/he has bedded only certified sweet potato seed. A grower cannot bed both certified and noncertified seed. A plant grower cannot sell both certified and noncerti- fied plants; 
2. That before bedding, for the purpose of producing certified plants for sale, all sweet potato seed was hand culled carefully and all potatoes with any spots or rots were discarded; 
3. That before bedding, all sweet potato seed was dipped to prevent disease in accordance with recommenda- tions of the University of Missouri Extension Division; 
4. That the sweet potato seed was bedded in soil in which sweet potatoes had never been grown; 
5. That the hot beds are located where drainage will not wash into them from barnyards, sweet potato houses or infected fields; 
6. That all old hot beds were thoroughly cleaned and disinfected with formaldehyde (one (1) pint to thirty (30) gal- lons of water) or other state-approved disinfectants; and 
7. That manure was not used in or on hot beds. Some method of heating the beds must be used; and 
(B) When moving certified sweet potato plants, a copy of the certificate must be attached to each separate bundle, package, basket, crate or container holding certified sweet potato plants or slips. 
(6) Vegetable transplant inspection is optional and is provid- ed for any grower desiring to produce certified vegetable transplants. Application for inspection must be made with the office of the state entomologist at least thirty (30) days prior to shipments. A certificate of inspection may be issued after the first inspection. Reinspections may be made, and reports of inspections issued, as often as every ten (10) days during the growing season, depending upon the require- ments of the state of destination. 
(7) Out-of-state sweet potato growers or any other individual or company must obtain a sweet potato permit-certificate from the Missouri state entomologist in order to ship seed sweet potatoes, sweet potato plants, slips, vines or cuttings into this state. Their permit-certificate must be attached to each package or container. 
(A) Each nonresident individual or company shall file with the state entomologist a grower’s statement and a copy of the certificate of inspection issued by the proper authorities within the state in which they were grown, certifying that an authorized inspector has inspected the plants or plant parts and found them to be free from plant pests. On compliance with these requirements, the state entomologist will issue a sweet potato permit-certificate without charging a fee. 
(B) Out-of-state vegetable transplant growers must file, with the Missouri state entomologist, a grower’s statement and a copy of their certificate of inspection certifying that an 

Page 1552 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
authorized inspector has inspected the vegetable transplants and found them to be free from plant pests.] 
[(8)](1) The inspection of collected native wild plant material is required and is provided for in this section. Whenever an individual offers for sale collected native wild plant material, it shall be adver- tised and sold as such. The buyer must be informed as to the nature of this stock and all shipments must bear a collected native wild plant inspection certificate. Certification shall be on the basis of inspection of the collecting range or periodic inspections of plant material being sold. 
[(9)](2) Fruit tree virus disease certification of nursery stock is pro- vided for under this section. Certified nursery stock advertised or sold with reference to freedom from virus and virus-like disease and sources of propagating material for virus-certified nursery stock shall meet one (1) of the following classifications: 
(A) Cooperating nurseries may register parent trees with the Missouri Department of Agriculture to serve as source material for scion blocks. These trees will be known as Registered Parent Trees. Registered Parent Trees shall meet the following requirements: 
1. The source of budwood for Registered Parent Trees shall be either the Interregional Research Project (IR-2), another government- approved virus-free repository or a source indexed and visually inspected for freedom from virus infection under the supervision of the Missouri Department of Agriculture for the following diseases: 
A. Malus sources shall be indexed for freedom from stem pit- ting, stem grooving, spy lethal, bud necrosis, and chlorotic leaf spot. These sources shall have borne fruit and shall be inspected visually for other infectious abnormalities such as scar skin, rubbery wood, mosaic, and flat limb; 
B. Pyrus sources shall have borne fruit and shall be inspected visually for foliar and fruit abnormalities of a genetic or infectious nature; 
C. Prunus sources shall be indexed for freedom from prunus ring spot virus, prune dwarf virus, and green ring mottle. They shall have borne fruit and shall be inspected visually for foliar and fruit abnormalities of a genetic or infectious nature; and 
D. The Missouri Department of Agriculture may require the indexing for any additional virus diseases as it shall determine nec- essary; 
2. The source of understock for Registered Parent Trees shall be one (1) of the following: 
A. True seedlings of Malus or Pyrus; 
B. Clonal understocks indexed and certified for freedom from virus by the Missouri Department of Agriculture or the department of agriculture of another state or country whose certificate is accept- able to the Missouri Department of Agriculture; and 
C. Prunus seedlings from seed from trees indexed and certi- fied for freedom from seed-borne virus by the Missouri Department of Agriculture or a certifying body acceptable to the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
3. Registered Parent Trees shall be maintained in isolation from noncertified trees of the same genus. Malus and Pyrus shall have at least one hundred fifty feet (150') of isolation. Prunus shall have at least one-fourth (1/4) mile of isolation; 
4. All Registered Parent Trees shall be inspected visually at least once a year under the supervision of the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
5. Registered Parent Trees may be indexed at any time at the dis- cretion of the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
6. Any Registered Parent Tree found infected with virus shall be removed within no more than ten (10) days of receipt of notice from the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
7. The nursery shall provide the Missouri Department of Agriculture with charts showing the location and variety of each Registered Parent Tree. The nursery’s records of the indexing and maintenance history of these trees shall be available for inspection by 
the Missouri Department of Agriculture during normal business hours after reasonable notice; 
8. The nursery shall notify the Missouri Department of Agriculture before adding any tree to the Registered Parent Tree growing area; and 
9. Registered Parent Trees shall be marked in such a manner as to be easily recognizable to the Missouri Department of Agriculture; (B) Cooperating nurseries may register groups of trees with the Missouri Department of Agriculture to serve as source material for the propagation of virus-certified nursery stock. These groups of trees will be known as Registered Scion Blocks. Trees in Registered 
Scion Blocks shall meet the following requirements: 1. The source of budwood for Registered Scion Block Trees shall 
be from Registered Parent Trees as set forth in subsection [(9)](2)(A), IR-2, or another government-approved virus-free repository; 
2. The source of understock for Registered Scion Block Trees shall meet the same standards as understocks for Registered Parent Trees as set forth in paragraph[s (9)](2)(A)2.; 
3. Registered Scion Blocks shall be maintained in isolation from noncertified trees of the same genus. Malus and Pyrus shall have at least one hundred fifty feet (150') of isolation. Prunus shall have at least four hundred fifty feet (450') of isolation; 
4. In any Registered Scion Blocks established after these rules go into effect, whenever there is more than one (1) variety in a row, there shall be a separation of at least ten feet (10') between varieties; 
5. All Registered Scion Blocks shall be inspected visually at least once a year under the supervision of the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
6. Registered Scion Block Trees may be reindexed at any time at the discretion of the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
7. Any Registered Scion Block Tree found infected with a virus shall be removed within no more than ten (10) days of receipt of notice from the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
8. The nursery shall provide the Missouri Department of Agriculture with charts showing the location and varieties included in each Registered Scion Block. The nursery’s records of the sources of budwood and understock shall be available for inspection by the Missouri Department of Agriculture during normal business hours after reasonable notice; 
9. The nursery shall notify the Missouri Department of Agriculture before adding any trees, buds, or understocks to any Registered Scion Block; and 
10. Registered Scion Blocks shall be marked in such a manner as to be easily recognizable to the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
(C) Cooperating nurseries may register Prunus trees with the Missouri Department of Agriculture to serve as a source of seed for the production of virus-certified nursery stock, Registered Scion Block Trees, and Registered Parent Trees. These trees will be known as Registered Seed Source Trees. Registered Seed Source Trees shall meet the following requirements: 
1. Registered Seed Source Trees shall be either indexed under the supervision of the Missouri Department of Agriculture for free- dom from seed-borne viruses or must be propagated from budwood and understock meeting the same requirements as for propagating Registered Scion Block Trees as set forth in paragraphs [(9)](2)(B)1. and 2.; and 
2. Isolation, inspection, indexing, recordkeeping, and notifica- tion requirements shall be the same as for Registered Parent Trees as set forth in paragraphs [(9)](2)(A)3.–9.; 
(D) Cooperating nurseries may register clonal plantings of self- rooted certified trees with the Missouri Department of Agriculture for the purpose of producing vegetatively-propagated rootstocks. These plantings will be known as Registered Stool Beds and shall meet the following requirements: 
1. The source of propagating material for Registered Stool Beds shall meet the same requirements as budwood for Registered Parent Trees as set forth in paragraph [(9)](2)(A)1.; 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1553 

2. Registered Stool Beds shall be maintained in isolation of one hundred fifty feet (150') from noncertified trees of the same genus; and 
3. Inspection, reindexing, removal, recordkeeping, and notifica- tion requirements shall be the same as for Registered Parent Trees as set forth in paragraphs [(9)](2)(A)4.–9.; 
(E) Nursery stock bearing the Fruit Tree Budwood and Understock Virus Certificate shall meet the following requirements: 
1. The source of budwood for the top variety and interstems shall be Registered Scion Block Trees or Registered Parent Trees as set forth in subsections [(9)](2)(A) and (B); 
2. The source of understock shall be one (1) of the following: A. True seedlings of Malus or Pyrus; B. Clonal understocks produced in Registered Stool Beds as 
set forth in subsection [(9)](2)(D) or bearing a virus certificate from a certifying body acceptable to the Missouri Department of Agriculture; and 
C. Seedlings from seed of Registered Seed Source Trees as set forth in subsection [(9)](2)(C) or from seed bearing a virus cer- tificate from a certifying body acceptable to the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
3. The nursery stock shall be grown in blocks separated from noncertified trees of the same genus by at least ten feet (10'); 
4. In any new plantings of nursery stock under this certification established after these rules go into effect, whenever there is more than one (1) variety in a nursery row, there shall be a separation of at least five feet (5') between varieties; 
5. The nursery stock shall be inspected visually at least once a year by the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
6. Samples of nursery stock bearing the Fruit Tree Budwood and Understock Certificate may be indexed at the discretion of the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
7. The nursery shall provide the Missouri Department of Agriculture with charts showing the growing location and quantity of nursery stock produced under this certificate. They also shall provide copies of virus certificates for nursery stock and propagating mater- ial received from outside Missouri. The records of sources of prop- agating material shall be open for inspection by the Missouri Department of Agriculture; and 
8. Nursery stock in the field and in storage shall be marked in such a manner as to be easily identifiable to the Missouri Depart- ment of Agriculture as virus-certified material; 
(F) Nursery stock bearing the Fruit Tree Budwood Virus Certificate shall meet the following requirements: 
1. The source of budwood for the top variety and interstems shall be Registered Scion Block Trees or Registered Parent Trees as set forth in subsections [(9)](2)(A) and (B); 
2. The nursery stock shall be grown in blocks separated from noncertified trees of the same genus by at least ten feet (10'); 
3. In any new plantings of nursery stock under this certification established after these rules go into effect, whenever there is more than one (1) variety in a nursery row there shall be a separation of at least five feet (5') between varieties; 
4. The nursery stock shall be inspected visually at least once a year by the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
5. Samples of nursery stock may be indexed at the discretion of the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
6. The nursery shall provide the Missouri Department of Agriculture with charts showing the growing location and quantity of nursery stock produced under this certification. They also shall pro- vide copies of virus certificates for nursery stock and propagating material received from outside Missouri. The nursery’s records of sources of propagating material shall be open for inspection by the Missouri Department of Agriculture during normal business hours after reasonable notice; and 
7. Nursery stock in the field and in storage shall be marked in such a manner as to be easily identifiable to the Missouri Depart- ment of Agriculture and nursery personnel as virus-certified materi- 
al; and (G) Nursery stock or seed bearing the Fruit Tree Understock Virus 
Certificate shall meet the following requirements: 1. The source of seed bearing this certificate shall be Registered 
Seed Source Trees as set forth in subsection [(9)](2)(C). Seedlings bearing this certificate must be grown from seed of Registered Seed Source Trees as set forth in subsection [(9)](2)(C) or from seed bear- ing the virus certificate of a certifying body acceptable to the Missouri Department of Agriculture. Clonal understocks bearing this certificate must be propagated in Registered Stool Beds as set forth in subsection [(9)](2)(D); 
2. Seedlings shall be grown in blocks separated from noncerti- fied trees of the same genus by ten feet (10'); 
3. The nursery stock shall be inspected visually at least once a year by the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
4. Samples of nursery stock or seed bearing the Fruit Tree Understock Virus Certificate may be indexed at the discretion of the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
5. The nursery shall provide the Missouri Department of Agriculture with charts showing the growing location and quantity of nursery stock and seed produced under this certificate. They also shall provide copies of virus certificates of seed received from out- side Missouri. The records of sources of propagating materials shall be open for inspection by the Missouri Department of Agriculture; and 
6. Nursery stock in the field and in storage and seed in storage shall be marked in such a manner as to be easily identifiable to the Missouri Department of Agriculture as virus-certified material. 
[(10)](3) Grape virus disease certification of nursery stock is option- al and is provided for under this section. Grapevines advertised or sold with reference to freedom from virus and virus-like diseases and propagating material for virus-certified grapevines shall meet one (1) of the following classifications: 
(A) Foundation blocks shall be registered with the Missouri Department of Agriculture. These will serve as source material for the propagation of registered stock blocks and virus-certified nursery stock and may be located at cooperating nurseries or other locations approved by the Missouri Department of Agriculture and shall meet the following requirements: 
1. Propagating wood for foundation blocks shall be from mate- rial which has been tested for and found to be apparently free from the following viruses: fanleaf degeneration, leaf-roll, corky bark, American grape decline (peach rosette-mosaic virus), fleck, stem- pitting, tobacco ringspot virus, and tomato ringspot virus; 
2. Foundation block vines shall be tested at appropriate intervals by the Missouri Department of Agriculture for the viruses listed in paragraph [(10)](3)(A)1.; 
3. Foundation blocks shall be at least one hundred feet (100') from land on which noncertified grapevines have been grown within the past ten (10) years; 
4. All foundation blocks shall be inspected visually at least twice a year in the spring and in the fall by the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
5. Any foundation block plants found to be infected with virus or virus-like diseases shall be removed under the supervision of the Missouri Department of Agriculture and within ten (10) days of receipt of notice from the department; 
6. The Missouri Department of Agriculture shall be provided with charts showing the location and variety of each foundation block plant; 
7. The Missouri Department of Agriculture shall be notified before any grapevines are added to a foundation block; 
8. Foundation block plants shall be marked in such a manner as to be easily recognizable to the Missouri Department of Agriculture; and 
9. The Missouri Department of Agriculture may require such treatments or precautionary measures as may be necessary to protect 

Page 1554 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
against infection or infestation with the viruses listed in paragraph [(10)](3)(A)1.; 
(B) Registered Stock Block—Cooperating nurseries shall register stock block plants with the Missouri Department of Agriculture. These may serve as a source of propagating material for nursery stock. Plantings of these vines will be known as Registered Stock Blocks and shall meet the following requirements: 
1. Propagating wood for Registered Stock Blocks shall originate from foundation blocks or from grapevines which meet or exceed the Missouri requirements for foundation block plants; 
2. Registered Stock Block plants may be tested for infection by viruses at any time at the discretion of the Missouri Department of Agriculture; and 
3. Requirements of paragraphs [(10)](3)(A)3.–9. also shall apply to Registered Stock Blocks; 
(C) Nursery stock bearing the Grapevine Virus Certificate shall meet the following requirements: 
1. The source of propagating wood shall be registered stock block vines, foundation block vines or propagating wood which meets the requirements of Registered Stock Block vines; 
2. Samples of nursery stock bearing the Grapevine Virus Certificate may be virus-tested at the discretion of the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
3. The nursery stock shall be planted at least one hundred feet (100’) from land on which noncertified grapevines have been grown within the past ten (10) years. This also includes container-grown stock; 
4. The propagating area shall be disinfected in a manner approved by the Missouri Department of Agriculture any time it is utilized for the propagation of grape plants that do not meet the virus- free certification requirements; 
5. The nursery stock shall be inspected at least once a year by the Missouri Department of Agriculture; 
6. The nursery shall provide the Missouri Department of Agriculture with the charts showing the growing location and quan- tity of nursery stock produced under this certificate; 
7. Nursery stock in propagating areas in the field and in storage shall be marked in such a manner as to be easily recognizable to the Missouri Department of Agriculture as virus-certified material; and 
8. Nursery stock shall remain in the nursery row for no more than two (2) growing seasons; and 
(D) Foundation container grapevines, grown in greenhouses, which are isolated from noncertified grapevines, may be registered with the Missouri Department of Agriculture to serve as propagating material for virus-certified nursery stock and virus-certified stock plants, and shall meet the following requirements: 
1. Propagating wood for foundation container grapevines shall have been tested and found to be apparently free from the viruses listed in paragraph [(10)](3)(A)1.; 
2. Requirements set forth for foundation blocks in paragraphs [(10)](3)(A)3.–9. shall apply to foundation container grapevines; and 3. Nursery stock propagated from foundation container grapevines bearing the Grapevine Virus Certificate shall be no more than four (4) cutting generations removed from plants which have been tested for and found to be apparently free from the diseases list- 
ed in paragraph [(10)](3)(A)1. 
AUTHORITY: section 263.040, RSMo [1986] 2016. Original rule filed Aug. 4, 1958, effective Aug. 14, 1958. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 11—Missouri Plant Law Quarantines 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-11.020 Japanese Beetle Intrastate Quarantine. This rule was inacted to prevent the spread of a serious insect pest, known as the Japanese beetle, within this state and to other uninfested states and to establish those areas which are to be regulated. 
PURPOSE: This quarantine is no longer viable for species control. 
AUTHORITY: sections 263.040 and 263.050, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Sept. 10, 1959, effective Sept. 20, 1959. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 11—Missouri Plant Law Quarantines 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-11.030 Pink Bollworm Intrastate Quarantine. This rule was inacted to prevent the spread of a serious insect pest, known as the Pink Bollworm, Pectinophora gossypiella, to other uninfested areas of the State of Missouri, and other states, and to establish those articles and areas which are to be regulated. Pectinophora gossypiella (Saunders). 
PURPOSE: This quarantine is no longer viable for species control. 
AUTHORITY: sections 263.040, RSMo 1986 and 263.050, RSMo Supp. 1993. Original rule filed Dec. 10, 1974, effective Dec. 20, 1974. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private entities 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1555 

more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 11—Missouri Plant Law Quarantines 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-11.050 Emerald Ash Borer Intrastate Quarantine. This rule was inacted to prevent the spread of a serious insect pest, known as the Emerald Ash Borer, Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire to other uninfested areas of the state of Missouri, and other states, and to establish those articles and areas which are to be regulated. 
PURPOSE: This quarantine has been superseded by a federal quar- antine. 
AUTHORITY: sections 263.040, 263.050, and 263.180, RSMo 2000. Emergency rule filed Aug. 18, 2008, effective Aug. 28, 2008, expired Feb. 26, 2009. Original rule filed Dec. 18, 2008, effective July 30, 2009. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 12—Sustainable Agriculture 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-12.010 Sustainable Agriculture Demonstration Awards. This rule was inacted to set forth the requirement for funding the development and coordination of demonstration projects on the lands of individual farmers in this state under actual farming conditions that will reduce the dependency of food and fiber production on non- renewal inputs. 
PURPOSE: The statutory authority for this rule was repealed in 2012 (H.B. 1608). 
AUTHORITY: section 261.105, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed Nov. 9, 1994, effective April 30, 1995. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 15—Missouri Apiary Law Rules 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-15.035 Elimination of American Foulbrood Disease. This rule was inacted to establish acceptable methods of eliminating American foulbrood disease from the apiary. 
PURPOSE: This action will clarify existing apiary rules by uniformly addressing control measures for all apiary arthropod pests and dis- eases in 2 CSR 70-15.045. 
AUTHORITY: section 264.095, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Oct. 12, 1978, effective Feb. 1, 1979. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 15—Missouri Apiary Law Rules 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
2 CSR 70-15.045 [The Elimination of Diseases Other Than American Foulbrood] Control of Apiary Arthropod Pests and Diseases. The director is amending the title, purpose statement, and section (1). 
PURPOSE: This amendment clarifies apiary pest and disease certi- fication. 
PURPOSE: This rule establishes how [disease other than American foulbrood shall] apiary arthropod pests and diseases will be dealt with prior to certification of the colony. 
(1) The [elimination of diseases other than American foul- brood shall] control of apiary arthropod pests and diseases will be dealt with on an individual basis. Apiary inspectors will deter- mine whether certification is possible. Written recommendation will be given for those arthropod pests and diseases that require some 

Page 1556 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
type of treatment for control. When certification is withheld, rein- spection will be made within a six (6)-month period. 
AUTHORITY: section 264.095, RSMo [1986] 2016. Original rule filed Oct. 12, 1978, effective Feb. 1, 1979. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.010 Definitions of the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program. This rule defined terms to be used when implementing the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.015 The Adoption of NOP Standards. This rule out- lined the portions of NOP 7 CFR, Part 205 that were adopted as Missouri Department of Agriculture (MDA) Organic Program stan- dards. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.020 MDA Organic Program Advisory Board. This rule established a Missouri Department of Agriculture (MDA) Organic Program Advisory Board and defined its duties. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.025 Procedures for Organic Certification. This rule outlined the procedures for application for organic certification or 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1557 

recertification by the Missouri Department of Agriculture (MDA) Organic Program, with associated fees. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.030 Records to be Maintained for Certification. This rule described the records that organic entities maintained for organic certification or recertification by the Missouri Department of Agriculture (MDA) Organic Program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.035 Inspections and Sampling for Certification. This rule outlined procedures that the Missouri Department of Agriculture (MDA) Organic Program utilized for inspections and sampling of certification applicants and certified organic entities. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.040 Complaints and Investigations. This rule out- lined the criteria that the program used to determine when to inves- tigate complaints. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 

Page 1558 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.045 Compliance Enforcement. This rule outlined the criteria that the program used to determine when to implement com- pliance enforcement actions, and the procedures followed for the compliance actions. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.050 Certificates Issued as Result of Certification with the MDA Organic Program. This rule outlined procedures for issuing certificates to organic entities that were certified by the pro- gram. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 
630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.055 MDA Organic Program Seal. This rule estab- lished a Missouri Department of Agriculture (MDA) Organic Program Seal, and the criteria for use of the seal. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.060 Registration with the MDA Organic Program. This rule outlined procedures for organic entities to be registered with the program, with associated fees. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1559 

NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.065 Inspection and Sampling for Registration. This rule outlined inspection and sampling procedures of applicants and registrants with the program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.070 Marketing When Registered with the MDA Organic Program. This rule described the use of the “Registered by the MDA Organic Program” logo. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 16—Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-16.075 Organic Certifying Agent Registration. This rule outlined the procedures for certifying agents that certified organ- ic entities in the state of Missouri to register with the program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Missouri Department of Agriculture Organic Program is no longer an accredited certifier for the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. 
AUTHORITY: section 261.110, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Jan. 3, 2003, effective Aug. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 25—Pesticides 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-25.070 Requirements for Certified Commercial Applicators or Public Operators in Structural Pest Control. This rule set forth the qualifications required for those persons who wished to be certified as commercial applicators or public operators in the category of structural pest control. This category is described in 2 CSR 70-25.100(5)(G). The rule set forth training and experience requirements for those individuals to be certified in this category. 
PURPOSE: Rescission of this rule will bring Missouri’s requirements for structural applicators in line with surrounding states and will eliminate a barrier to new companies entering the pest control indus- try. 
AUTHORITY: section 281.025, RSMo Supp. 1989. Original rule filed 

Page 1560 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
May 12, 1976, effective Oct. 21, 1976. Amended: Filed July 8, 1977, effective Oct. 14, 1977. Amended: Filed Aug. 14, 1989, effective Jan. 1, 1990. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for 2:00 p.m., Wednesday, September 5, 2018, in the second floor con- ference room at 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO, 65109. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 35—Seed Regulation 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 2 CSR 70-35.010 Definitions. The division is amending the rule 
purpose and sections (1) and (2). 
PURPOSE: This amendment updates names of plants that produce noxious weed seeds and clarifies what seed is subject to regulation. 
PURPOSE: This rule designates what plants’ seeds are agricultural [(crop)] seeds for labeling purposes and also designates restricted weed[s’] seeds. Both agricultural [(crop)] seed and restricted weed[s’] seeds content must be declared on the label to comply with the statute, but the seed of plants making up these lists are not spec- ified by statute. 
(1) Agricultural Seeds. Agricultural [crop] seeds will be those listed as agricultural seeds in the Federal Seed Act, 7 CFR Section 201.2[(L)](h), January (1976). 
(2) Restricted Weed[s’] Seeds. (A) Prohibited Weed[s’] Seeds. The seeds of the following plants: 
balloon vine (Cardiospermum halicacubum), Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), musk thistle (Carduus nutans), serrated tus- sock (Nassella trichotoma) and sorghum almum (Sorghum almum). 
(B) Noxious Weed[s’] Seeds. The seeds of the following plants: plants commonly known as docks of the [(]Rumex species[)] (red sorrel, curly dock, etc.), dodders (Cuscuta species), buckhorn (Plantago lanceolata), eastern black night-shade (Solanum ptycan- thum), giant foxtail (Setarai faberi), hedge bindweed (Convolvulus sepium), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), hoary cress (Cardaria draba), purple moon[ ]flower ([Calonyction muricatum] Ipomoea muricata), quackgrass ([Agropyron] Elymus repens), Russian this- tle (Salsola pestifer), slender oats (Avena barbata), wild garlic (Allium vineale), wild oats (Avena fatua), wild onion (Allium canadense) and yellow star thistle (Centaurea solstitialis) are desig- nated as noxious and are subject to listing on seed labels according to the requirements of the Missouri Seed Law, sections 266.[021]011 to 266.111, RSMo [(1986)]. 
AUTHORITY: section 266.091, RSMo [1986] 2016. Original rule 
filed June 6, 1952, effective June 16, 1952. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 35—Seed Regulation 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-35.031 Licensing. This rule specified the kind of actual seed sales facility obligated to purchase a seed sales permit in com- pliance with section 266.031, RSMo (1986) and also emphasized the need for both retail and wholesale places to purchase a permit. 
PURPOSE: The rule is redundant to statute and should be rescind- ed. 
AUTHORITY: section 266.091, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed Sept. 28, 1979, effective March 13, 1980. Amended: Filed April 10, 1995, effective Oct. 30, 1995. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 40—Missouri Treated Timber Products Law Rules 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 2 CSR 70-40.005 Treated Timber Definitions. This rule defined 
terms used throughout the Treated Timber Law. 
PURPOSE: Missouri is the last state to maintain regulation of treat- ed timber dealers and producers. Removing regulations will provide consistency in the industry. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1561 

AUTHORITY: section 280.050, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 27, 2008, effective March 30, 2009. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 40—Missouri Treated Timber Products Law Rules 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-40.015 Standards for Treated Timber. This rule estab- lished standards to be used by anyone selling or offering for sale treated timber products in the state of Missouri. 
PURPOSE: Missouri is the last state to maintain regulation of treat- ed timber dealers and producers. Removing regulations will provide consistency in the industry. 
AUTHORITY: section 280.050, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Oct. 10, 1980, effective Feb. 1, 1981. For intervening history, please con- sult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 40—Missouri Treated Timber Products Law Rules 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-40.016 Producers to Follow Pesticide Label. This rule specified the federal and state laws that pertained to the wood preser- vative chemicals as pesticides and clarified that label directions for these chemicals must be followed in accordance with these laws. 
PURPOSE: Missouri is the last state to maintain regulation of treat- ed timber dealers and producers. Removing regulations will provide 
consistency in the industry. 
AUTHORITY: section 280.050, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effective May 15, 1986. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 40—Missouri Treated Timber Products Law Rules 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-40.017 Preservatives Required to be Registered Pesticides. This rule clarified that all wood preservatives used must be registered with or exempted from registration with the Environmental Protection Agency before they may be used. 
PURPOSE: Missouri is the last state to maintain regulation of treat- ed timber dealers and producers. Removing regulations will provide consistency in the industry. 
AUTHORITY: section 280.050, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Feb. 6, 2008, effective Sept. 30, 2008. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. o be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 40—Missouri Treated Timber Products Law Rules 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-40.025 Standards for Inspection, Sampling and Analyses. This regulation established guidelines for standards of inspection, sampling and analysis of treated timber products. 
PURPOSE: Missouri is the last state to maintain regulation of treated 

Page 1562 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
timber dealers and producers. Removing regulations will provide consistency in the industry. 
AUTHORITY: section 280.050, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Oct. 10, 1980, effective Feb. 1, 1981. For intervening history, please con- sult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 40—Missouri Treated Timber Products Law Rules 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-40.040 Branding of Treated Timber. This rule required each treated timber company to brand, for identification purposes, all treated timber products sold in Missouri. 
PURPOSE: Missouri is the last state to maintain regulation of treat- ed timber dealers and producers. Removing regulations will provide consistency in the industry. 
AUTHORITY: section 280.050, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed March 8, 1962, effective March 18, 1962. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries Chapter 40—Missouri Treated Timber Products Law Rules 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-40.050 Requirements for Treated Timber Invoices and Manifests. This rule required a company to show an invoice, includ- ing the type of treating process, the kind of preservatives and amount 
of preservatives retained in the material being sold. 
PURPOSE: Missouri is the last state to maintain regulation of treat- ed timber dealers and producers. Removing regulations will provide consistency in the industry. 
AUTHORITY: section 280.050, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed March 8, 1962, effective March 18, 1962. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 70—Plant Industries 
Chapter 40—Missouri Treated Timber Products Law Rules 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 70-40.055 Sale or Distribution of Wood Products Similar in Appearance to Treated Timber—Identification—Penalties. This rule provided a method of distinguishing between timber prod- ucts dipped in nonpreservatives and timber products treated accord- ing to the Missouri Treated Timber Law. This rule also specified that a violation is punishable under section 407.110, RSMo 1986, the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act. 
PURPOSE: Missouri is the last state to maintain regulation of treat- ed timber dealers and producers. Removing regulations will provide consistency in the industry. 
AUTHORITY: section 280.050, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effective May 15, 1986. Rescinded: Filed Feb. 6, 2008, changed to amended June 23, 2008, effective Sept. 30, 2008. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, ATTN: John Brunnert, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, com- ments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1563 

Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 2—Beginning Farmer Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-2.010 Definitions. This rule stated the meaning of terms used by the Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority in the Beginning Farmer Loan Program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it is not necessary for implementation of the program. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed July 12, 1984, effective Oct. 11, 1984. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 2—Beginning Farmer Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-2.020 Applicant Eligibility Requirements. This rule had set forth the requirements which must be met by the applicant in order to be an eligible borrower for a loan under this program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it is not necessary for implementation of the program. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed July 12, 1984, effective Oct. 11, 1984. Amended: Filed Feb. 11, 2009, effective Aug. 30, 2009. Amended: Filed July 30, 2015, effective Jan. 30, 2016. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 2—Beginning Farmer Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-2.030 Time and Manner of Filing Application. This rule had set forth the requirements for the time and manner of filing applications for loans under this program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it is not necessary for implementation of the program. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed July 12, 1984, effective Oct. 11, 1984. Amended: Filed Feb. 11, 2009, effective Aug. 30, 2009. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 2—Beginning Farmer Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 2 CSR 100-2.040 Fees. This rule had set forth the fee structure for 
this program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it is not necessary for implementation of the program. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed July 12, 1984, effective Oct. 11, 1984. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 

Page 1564 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 2—Beginning Farmer Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-2.050 Conditions for Execution of Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Agreement. This rule had set forth the conditions for execution of the loan agreement. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it is not necessary for implementation of the program. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed July 12, 1984, effective Oct. 11, 1984. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 3—Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-3.010 General Organization. This rule complied with section 536.023, RSMo 1986 which required each agency to adopt as a rule a description of its operation and the methods by which the public may obtain information or make submissions or requests. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 536.023, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 15, 1989, effective Oct. 27, 1989. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 3—Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-3.020 Definitions. This rule described terms used by the Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority in adminis- tering the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 15, 1989, effective Oct. 27, 1989. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 3—Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-3.030 Criteria Relating to Participating Borrowers, Participating Lenders and Agricultural Development Loans. This rule had set forth the fee structure and the requirements which the applicant must meet to be an eligible borrower for a loan under this program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 15, 1989, effective Oct. 27, 1989. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1565 

Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 3—Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-3.040 Procedure for the Purchase or Participation of Eligible Loans. This rule had set forth the procedures for the approval of loans to be purchased under this program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 15, 1989, effective Oct. 27, 1989. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 3—Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 2 CSR 100-3.050 Amendments. This rule had set forth the condi- 
tions under which amendments to the program will be made. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 15, 1989, effective Oct. 27, 1989. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 4—Small Business Development Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-4.010 General Organization. This rule complied with section 536.023, RSMo 1986 which requires each agency to adopt as a rule a description of its operation and the methods by which the public may obtain information or make submissions or requests. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Small Business Development Loan Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 536.023, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 13, 1991, effective Jan. 13, 1992. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 4—Small Business Development Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-4.020 Definitions. This rule described terms used by the Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority in adminis- tering the small business development loan program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Small Business Development Loan Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 13, 1991, effective Jan. 13, 1992. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 

Page 1566 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 4—Small Business Development Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-4.030 Criteria Relating to Participating Borrowers, Participating Lenders and Small Business Loans. This rule had set forth the fee structure and the requirements which the applicant must have met to be an eligible borrower for a loan under this program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Small Business Development Loan Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 13, 1991, effective Jan. 13, 1992. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 4—Small Business Development Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
2 CSR 100-4.040 Procedure for the Purchase or Participation of Eligible Loans. This rule had set forth the procedure for the approval of loans to be purchased under this program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Small Business Development Loan Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 348.075, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 13, 1991, effective Jan. 13, 1992. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 4—Small Business Development Loan Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 2 CSR 100-4.050 Amendments. This rule had set forth the condi- 
tions under which amendments to the program would be made. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the Small Business Development Loan Program is no longer utilized and the rules are not required by statute. 
AUTHORITY: section 536.023, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Aug. 13, 1991, effective Jan. 13, 1992. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Agriculture, PO Box 630, 1616 Missouri Boulevard, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or online at Agriculture.Mo.Gov/proposed-rules/. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 2—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Division 100—Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority Chapter 10—New Generation Cooperative Incentive Tax Credit Program 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
2 CSR 100-10.010 Description of Operation, Definitions, and Method of Distribution and Repayment of Tax Credits. The Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority is amending section (2) and subsection (3)(A). 
PURPOSE: This amendment changes the priority for tax credit allo- cation and updates the sunset to reflect current statute. 
(2) Definitions[. As used in this rule, the following shall mean]: 
(3) Operation of the Program. (A) Application—New generation cooperative applicants may sub- 
mit applications to the authority on a continuous basis. [In Fiscal Year 2001 through December 31, 2016 (when the tax credit provision expires), u]Up to six (6) million dollars in tax credits are available per fiscal year. Of these tax credit allocation amounts, each year the authority will reserve ten percent (10%) of the credits for “small capital projects.” The balance of tax credits will be available to “large capital projects” and “employee qualified capital projects.” After December 31 of each year, the authority will release any unal- located “small capital project” tax credits for “large capital projects” and “employee qualified capital projects” or any unallocated “large capital projects” and “employee qualified capital projects” tax cred- its to “small capital projects.” 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1567 

AUTHORITY: section 348.432, RSMo [Supp. 2008] 2016. Original rule filed July 26, 2001, effective Jan. 30, 2002. Amended: Filed Dec. 15, 2004, effective June 30, 2005. Amended: Filed Feb. 11, 2009, effective Aug. 30, 2009. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority, PO Box 630, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.110 Filing Requirements for Electric Utility Applications for Authority to Sell, Assign, Lease or Transfer Assets. Applications to the commission for the authority to sell, assign, lease or transfer assets must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.110. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.115 Filing Requirements for Electric Utility Applications for Authority to Merge or Consolidate. Applications to the commission for the authority to merge or consolidate must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.115. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.120 Filing Requirements for Electric Utility Applications for Authority to Issue Stock, Bonds, Notes and Other Evidences of Indebtedness. Applications to the commission for the authority to issue stock, bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applica- tions are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule 

Page 1568 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.120. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.125 Filing Requirements for Electric Utility Applications for Authority to Acquire the Stock of a Public Utility. Applications to the commission for the authority to acquire the stock of a public utility must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.125. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service 
Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.165 Annual Report Submission Requirements for Electric Utilities. Section 393.140(6), RSMo, includes an obligation for the commission to require every person and corporation under its supervision to submit an annual report to the commission. This rule establishes the standards for the submission of annual reports by electric utilities that are subject to the jurisdiction of the commission, including the procedures for submitting nonpublic annual report information. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.165. 
AUTHORITY: sections 386.250 and 393.140, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Amended: Filed Nov. 7, 2003, effective April 30, 2004. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1569 

SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.210 Filing Requirements for Gas Utility Applications for Authority to Sell, Assign, Lease or Transfer Assets. Applications to the commission for the authority to sell, assign, lease or transfer assets must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applica- tions are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.210. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.215 Filing Requirements for Gas Utility Applications for Authority to Merge or Consolidate. Applications to the commis- 
sion for the authority to merge or consolidate must meet the require- ments set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional require- ments pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240- 2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.215. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.220 Filing Requirements for Gas Utility Applications for Authority to Issue Stock, Bonds, Notes and Other Evidences of Indebtedness. Applications to the commission for the authority to issue stock, bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.220. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 

Page 1570 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.225 Filing Requirements for Gas Utility Applications for Authority to Acquire the Stock of a Public Utility. Applications to the commission for the authority to acquire the stock of a public util- ity must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.225. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit 
additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.245 Annual Report Submission Requirements for Gas Utilities. Section 393.140(6), RSMo, includes an obligation for the commission to require every person and corporation under its supervision to submit an annual report to the commission. This rule establishes the standards for the submission of annual reports by gas utilities that are subject to the jurisdiction of the commission, includ- ing the procedures for submitting nonpublic annual report informa- tion. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.245. 
AUTHORITY: sections 386.250 and 393.140, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Amended: Filed Nov. 7, 2003, effective April 30, 2004. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1571 

Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.270 Submission Requirements Regarding Plans, Procedures and Programs for the Transportation of Natural Gas by Pipeline. This rule set forth the plans, procedures and programs related to the transportation of natural gas by pipelines, which were to be submitted to designated commission personnel under various provisions of 4 CSR 240-40. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and consoli- dated into 4 CSR 240-40.030 in order to simplify and improve rules by streamlining and eliminating duplicative requirements. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 4, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. GX-2018-0279. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for August 20, 2018 at 10:00 a.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this pro- posed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commission ques- tions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.280 Submission Requirements Regarding Gas Utility Written Drug and Alcohol Testing Plans. This rule pre- scribed the requirements for submitting drug and alcohol testing plans for natural gas corporations, which were further described in 4 CSR 240-40.080. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and consoli- dated into 4 CSR 240-40.030 in order to simplify and improve rules by streamlining and eliminating duplicative requirements. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 4, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. GX-2018-0279. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for August 20, 2018 at 10:00 a.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this pro- posed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commission ques- tions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.290 Submission Requirements Regarding Gas Utility Incident, Annual and Safety-Related Condition Reports. This rule prescribed the requirements for submitting incident, annual, and safe- ty-related condition reports, which were further described in 4 CSR 240-40.020. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and consoli- dated into 4 CSR 240-40.020 in order to simplify and improve rules by streamlining and eliminating duplicative requirements. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 4, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to 

Page 1572 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Commission Case No. GX-2018-0279. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for August 20, 2018 at 10:00 a.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this pro- posed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commission ques- tions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.295 Submission Requirements Regarding Gas Utility Written Procedures for Conversion of Service and Uprating. This rule prescribed the requirements for submitting written procedures for conversion of service and uprating of pipelines, which were further described in 4 CSR 240-40.030. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and consoli- dated into 4 CSR 240-40.030 in order to simplify and improve rules by streamlining and eliminating duplicative requirements. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 4, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. GX-2018-0279. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for August 20, 2018 at 10:00 a.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this pro- posed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commission ques- tions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.310 Filing Requirements for Sewer Utility Applications for Authority to Sell, Assign, Lease or Transfer Assets. Applications to the commission for the authority to sell, assign, lease or transfer assets must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.310. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.315 Filing Requirements for Sewer Utility Applications for Authority to Merge or Consolidate. Applications to the commission for the authority to merge or consolidate must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.315. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1573 

AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.320 Filing Requirements for Sewer Utility Applications for Authority to Issue Stock, Bonds, Notes and Other Evidences of Indebtedness. Applications to the commission for the authority to issue stock, bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applica- tions are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.320. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be 
considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.325 Filing Requirements for Sewer Utility Applications for Authority to Acquire the Stock of a Public Utility. Applications to the commission for the authority to acquire the stock of a public utility must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applica- tions are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.325. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 

Page 1574 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.335 Annual Report Submission Requirements for Sewer Utilities. Section 393.140(6), RSMo, includes an obligation for the commission to require every person and corporation under its supervision to submit an annual report to the commission. This rule establishes the standards for the submission of annual reports by sewer utilities that are subject to the jurisdiction of the commission, including the procedures for submitting nonpublic annual report information. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.335. 
AUTHORITY: sections 386.250 and 393.140, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Amended: Filed Nov. 7, 2003, effective April 30, 2004. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.405 Filing Requirements for Steam Heating Utility Applications for Authority to Sell, Assign, Lease or Transfer Assets. Applications to the commission for the authority to sell, assign, lease or transfer assets must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining 
to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.405. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.410 Filing Requirements for Steam Heating Utility Applications for Authority to Merge or Consolidate. Applications to the commission for the authority to merge or consolidate must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.410. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1575 

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.415 Filing Requirements for Steam Heating Utility Applications for Authority to Issue Stock, Bonds, Notes and Other Evidences of Indebtedness. Applications to the commission for the authority to issue stock, bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applica- tions are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.415. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by 
the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.420 Filing Requirements for Steam Heating Utility Applications for Authority to Acquire the Stock of a Public Utility. Applications to the commission for the authority to acquire the stock of a public utility must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.420. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.435 Annual Report Submission Requirements for Steam Heating Utilities. Section 393.140(6), RSMo, includes an obligation for the commission to require every person and corpora- tion under its supervision to submit an annual report to the commis- sion, and section 393.290 provides for the commission’s jurisdiction 

Page 1576 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
over steam heating utilities. This rule establishes the standards for the submission of annual reports by steam heating utilities that are sub- ject to the jurisdiction of the commission, including the procedures for submitting nonpublic annual report information. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.435. 
AUTHORITY: sections 386.250, 393.140, and 393.290, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Amended: Filed Nov. 7, 2003, effective April 30, 2004. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.605 Filing Requirements for Water Utility Applications for Authority to Sell, Assign, Lease or Transfer Assets. Applications to the commission for the authority to sell, assign, lease or transfer assets must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.605. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.610 Filing Requirements for Water Utility Applications for Authority to Merge or Consolidate. Applications to the commission for the authority to merge or consolidate must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.610. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1577 

additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.615 Filing Requirements for Water Utility Applications for Authority to Issue Stock, Bonds, Notes and Other Evidences of Indebtedness. Applications to the commission for the authority to issue stock, bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applica- tions are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.615. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.620 Filing Requirements for Water Utility Applications for Authority to Acquire the Stock of a Public Utility. Applications to the commission for the authority to acquire the stock of a public utility must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.620. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 3—Filing and Reporting Requirements 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
4 CSR 240-3.640 Annual Report Submission Requirements for Water Utilities. Section 393.140(6), RSMo, includes an obligation for the commission to require every person and corporation under its supervision to submit an annual report to the commission. This rule establishes the standards for the submission of annual reports by water utilities that are subject to the jurisdiction of the commission, including the procedures for submitting nonpublic annual report information. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded in its entirety and a new rule will be promulgated with streamlined requirements previously con- tained in 4 CSR 240-3.640. 
AUTHORITY: sections 386.250 and 393.140, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 16, 2002, effective April 30, 2003. Amended: Filed Nov. 7, 2003, effective April 30, 2004. Rescinded: Filed June 14, 2018. 

Page 1578 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rescission with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission, and may be asked to respond to commis- sion questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 10—Utilities 
PROPOSED RULE 
4 CSR 240-10.105 Filing Requirements for Electric, Gas, Water, Sewer, and Steam Heating Utility Applications for Authority to Sell, Assign, Lease, or Transfer Assets 
PURPOSE: Applications to the commission for the authority to sell, assign, lease, or transfer assets must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
(1) In addition to the requirements of 4 CSR 240-2.060(1), applica- tions for authority to sell, assign, lease, or transfer assets shall include: 
(A) A brief description of the property involved in the transaction, including any franchises, permits, operating rights, or certificates of convenience and necessity; 
(B) A copy of the contract or agreement of sale; 
(C) The verification of proper authority by the person signing the application or a certified copy of resolution of the board of directors of each applicant authorizing the proposed action; 
(D) The reasons the proposed sale of the assets is not detrimental to the public interest; 
(E) If the purchaser is subject to the jurisdiction of the commis- sion, a balance sheet and income statement with adjustments showing the results of the acquisitions of the property; and 
(F) A statement of the impact, if any, the sale, assignment, lease, or transfer of assets will have on the tax revenues of the political sub- divisions in which any structures, facilities, or equipment of the com- panies involved in that sale are located. 
(2) If the purchaser is not subject to the jurisdiction of the commis- 
sion, but will be subject to the commission’s jurisdiction after the sale, the purchaser must comply with these rules. 
(3) If any of the items required under this rule are unavailable at the time the application is filed, they shall be furnished prior to the granting of the authority sought. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rule will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rule will not cost private entities more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rule with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be consid- ered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rule, and may be asked to respond to commission questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 10—Utilities 
PROPOSED RULE 
4 CSR 240-10.115 Filing Requirements for Electric, Gas, Water, Sewer, and Steam Heating Utility Applications for Authority to Merge or Consolidate 
PURPOSE: Applications to the commission for the authority to merge or consolidate must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
(1) In addition to the requirements of 4 CSR 240-2.060(1), applica- tions for authority to merge or consolidate shall include: 
(A) A copy of the proposed plan and agreement of corporate merg- er and consolidation, including organizational charts depicting the relationship of the merging entities before and after the transaction; 
(B) A certified copy of the resolution of the board of directors of each applicant authorizing the proposed merger and consolidation; 
(C) The balance sheets and income statements of each applicant and a balance sheet and income statement of the surviving corpora- tion; 
(D) The reasons the proposed merger is not detrimental to the pub- lic interest; 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1579 

(E) An estimate of the impact of the merger on the company’s Missouri jurisdictional operations relative to the merger and acquisi- tion in question; and 
(F) A statement of the impact, if any, the merger or consolidation will have on the tax revenues of the political subdivision in which any structures, facilities, or equipment of the companies involved are located. 
(2) If the purchaser is not subject to the jurisdiction of the commis- sion, but will be subject to the commission’s jurisdiction after the sale, the purchaser must comply with these rules. 
(3) If any of the items required under this rule are unavailable at the time the application is filed, they shall be furnished prior to the granting of the authority sought. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rule will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rule will not cost private entities more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rule with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be consid- ered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rule, and may be asked to respond to commission questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 10—Utilities 
PROPOSED RULE 
4 CSR 240-10.125 Filing Requirements for Electric, Gas, Water, Sewer, and Steam Heating Utility Applications for Authority to Issue Stock, Bonds, Notes, and Other Evidences of Indebtedness 
PURPOSE: Applications to the commission for the authority to issue stock, bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements pertaining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
(1) In addition to the requirements of 4 CSR 240-2.060(1), applica- tions for authority to issue stock, bonds, notes, and other evidences of indebtedness shall contain the following: 
(A) A brief description of the securities which applicant desires to issue; 
(B) A statement of the purpose for which the securities are to be issued and the use of the proceeds; 
(C) Copies of executed instruments defining the terms of the pro- posed securities— 
1. If these instruments have been previously filed with the com- mission, a reference to the case number in which the instruments were furnished; 
2. If these instruments have not been executed at the time of fil- ing, a statement of the general terms and conditions to be contained in the instruments which are proposed to be executed; and 
3. If none of these instruments is either executed or to be exe- cuted, a statement of how the securities are to be sold; 
(D) A certified copy of resolutions of the directors of applicant authorizing the issuance of the securities; 
(E) A balance sheet and income statement with adjustments show- ing the effects of the issuance of the proposed securities upon— 
1. Bonded and other indebtedness; and 
2. Stock authorized and outstanding; (F) A statement of what portion of the issue is subject to the fee 
schedule in section 386.300, RSMo; and (G) A five- (5-) year capitalization expenditure schedule as 
required by section 393.200, RSMo. 
(2) If any of the items required under this rule are unavailable at the time the application is filed, they shall be furnished prior to the granting of the authority sought. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rule will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rule will not cost private entities more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rule with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be consid- ered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rule, and may be asked to respond to commission questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 10—Utilities 
PROPOSED RULE 
4 CSR 240-10.135 Filing Requirements for Electric, Gas, Water, Sewer, and Steam Heating Utility Applications for Authority to Acquire the Stock of a Public Utility 

Page 1580 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
PURPOSE: Applications to the commission for the authority to acquire the stock of a public utility must meet the requirements set forth in this rule. As noted in the rule, additional requirements per- taining to such applications are set forth in 4 CSR 240-2.060(1). 
(1) In addition to the requirements of 4 CSR 240-2.060(1), applica- tions for authority to acquire the stock of a public utility shall include: 
(A) A statement of the offer to purchase stock of the public utility or a copy of any agreement entered with shareholders to purchase stock; 
(B) A certified copy of the resolution of the directors of the appli- cant authorizing the acquisition of the stock; and 
(C) Reasons why the proposed acquisition of the stock of the pub- lic utility is not detrimental to the public interest. 
(2) If any of the items required under this rule are unavailable at the time the application is filed, they shall be furnished prior to the granting of the authority sought. 
AUTHORITY: section 386.250, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rule will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rule will not cost private entities more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rule with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be consid- ered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rule, and may be asked to respond to commission questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 10—Utilities 
PROPOSED RULE 
4 CSR 240-10.145 Annual Report Submission Requirements for Electric, Gas, Water, Sewer, and Steam Heating Utilities 
PURPOSE: Section 393.140(6), RSMo, includes an obligation for the commission to require every person and corporation under its supervision to submit an annual report to the commission. This rule establishes the standards for the submission of annual reports by 
electric, gas, water, sewer, and steam heating utilities that are sub- ject to the jurisdiction of the commission, including the procedures for submitting nonpublic annual report information. 
(1) All electric, gas, water, sewer, and steam heating utilities shall submit an annual report to the commission on or before April 15 of each year, except as otherwise provided for in this rule. 
(2) Annual reports shall be submitted either on a form provided by the commission or on a computer-generated replica that is acceptable to the commission. Reports being submitted on paper are to be pre- pared in looseleaf format and sent to the attention of the secretary of the commission. Computer-generated reports can be submitted through the commission’s electronic filing and information system (EFIS). Attempts to substitute forms such as stockholder reports without concurrently submitting official commission forms with appropriate cross-references will be considered noncompliant. All requested information shall be included in the annual report, where applicable, even if it has been provided in a previous annual report. 
(3) A utility that receives a notice from the commission stating that deficiencies exist in the information provided in the annual report shall respond to that notice within twenty (20) days after the date of the notice, and shall provide the information requested in the notice in its response. 
(4) If a utility subject to this rule considers the information requested on the annual report form to be nonpublic information, it must sub- mit both a fully completed version to be kept under seal and a redact- ed public version that clearly informs the reader that the redacted information has been submitted as nonpublic information to be kept under seal. Submittals made under this section that do not include both versions will be considered deficient. The staff on behalf of the commission will issue a deficiency letter to the company and if both versions of the annual report are not received within twenty (20) days of the notice, the submittal will be considered noncompliant. In addition to the foregoing, submittals made under this section must meet the following requirements: 
(A) A cover letter stating that the utility is designating some or all of the information in its annual report as confidential information, and including the name, phone number, and e-mail address (if avail- able) of the person responsible for addressing questions regarding the confidential portions of the annual report, must be submitted with the reports; 
(B) The cover of each version of the report must clearly identify whether it is the public or nonpublic version; 
(C) A detailed affidavit that identifies the specific types of infor- mation to be kept under seal, provides a reason why the specific information should be kept under seal and states that none of the information to be kept under seal is available to the public in any for- mat must be prominently attached to both versions of the report; and 
(D) Each page of each version of the report that contains nonpublic information shall be clearly identified as containing such informa- tion. 
(5) If an entity asserts that any of the information contained in the nonpublic version of the annual report should be made available to the public, then that entity must file a pleading with the commission requesting an order to make the information available to the public, and shall serve a copy of the pleading on the utility affected by the request. The pleading must explain how the public interest is better served by disclosure of the information than the reason provided by the utility justifying why the information should be kept under seal. The utility affected by the request may file a response to a pleading filed under these provisions within fifteen (15) days after the filing of such a pleading. Within five (5) business days after the due date for the filing of the utility’s response to a request filed under these provisions, the general counsel by filing of a pleading, will make a 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1581 

recommendation to the commission advising whether the request should be granted. 
(6) A utility subject to this rule that is unable to meet the submission date established in section (1) of this rule may obtain an extension of up to thirty (30) days for submitting its annual report by— 
(A) Submitting a written request, which states the reason for the extension, to the attention of the secretary of the commission prior to April 15; and 
(B) Certifying that a copy of the written request was sent to all par- ties of record in pending cases before the commission where the util- ity’s activities are the primary focus of the proceedings. 
(7) A utility subject to this rule that is unable to meet the submission date established in section (1) of this rule may request an extension of greater than thirty (30) days for submitting its annual report by— 
(A) Filing a pleading, in compliance with the requirements of Chapter 2 of 4 CSR 240-2, which states the reason for and the length of the extension being requested, with the commission prior to April 15; and 
(B) Certifying that a copy of the pleading was sent to all parties of record in pending cases before the commission where the utility’s activities are the primary focus of the proceedings. 
(8) Responses to deficiency notices under the provisions of section (3) of this rule, requests for confidential treatment under the provi- sions of section (4) of this rule, pleadings requesting public disclo- sure of information contained under seal under the provisions of sec- tion (5) of this rule, and requests for extensions of time under the provisions of sections (6) or (7) of this rule may be submitted through the commission’s electronic filing and information system (EFIS). 
(9) A utility subject to this rule that does not timely file its annual report, or its response to a notice that its annual report is deficient, is subject to a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100) and an addition- al penalty of one hundred dollars ($100) for each day that it is late in filing its annual report or its response to a notice of deficiency. 
AUTHORITY: sections 386.250 and 393.140, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rule will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rule will not cost private entities more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to the proposed rule with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be consid- ered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. AX-2018-0257. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, August 22, 2018 at 2:00 p.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this proposed rule, and may be asked to respond to commission questions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 40—Gas Utilities and Gas Safety Standards 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
4 CSR 240-40.020 Incident, Annual, and Safety-Related Condition Reporting Requirements. The commission is amending sections (2), (3), (7), (11), (12), and (13). 
PURPOSE: This amendment proposes to amend the rule to address the 2016 amendment of 49 CFR part 191, to correct errors and inad- vertent omissions from previous amendments, and to remove unnec- essary verbiage. 
(2) Definitions. (191.3) As used in this rule and in the PHMSA Forms referenced in this rule— 
(B) Commission means the Public Service Commission. Designated commission personnel means the Pipeline Safety Program Manager at the address contained in subsection (5)(E) for [required] correspondence and means the list of staff personnel sup- plied to operators for [required] telephonic notices; 
(C) Confirmed discovery means when it can be reasonably determined, based on information available to the operator at the time a reportable event has occurred, even if only based on a pre- liminary evaluation; 
[(C)](D) Federal incident means any of the following events: 1. An event that involves a release of gas from a pipeline and 
that results in one (1) or more of the following consequences: A. A death or personal injury necessitating inpatient hospi- 
talization; or B. Estimated property damage of fifty thousand dollars 
($50,000) or more, including loss to the operator and others, or both, but excluding the cost of gas lost; or 
C. Unintentional estimated gas loss of three (3) million cubic feet or more; or 
2. An event that is significant, in the judgment of the operator, even though it did not meet the criteria of paragraph [(2)(C)1.] (2)(D)1.; 
[(D)](E) Gas means natural gas, flammable gas, manufactured gas or gas which is toxic or corrosive; 
[(E)](F) LNG facility means a pipeline facility that is used for liquefying natural gas or synthetic gas or transferring, storing, or vaporizing liquefied natural gas; 
(G) LNG plant means an LNG facility or system of LNG facil- ities functioning as a unit; 
[(F)](H) Master meter system means a pipeline system for distrib- uting gas within, but not limited to, a definable area, such as a mobile home park, housing project, or apartment complex, where the operator purchases metered gas from an outside source for resale through a gas distribution pipeline system. The gas distribution pipeline system supplies the ultimate consumer who either purchases the gas directly through a meter or by other means, for instance, by rents; 
[(G)](I) Municipality means a city, village, or town; 
[(H)](J) Operator means a person who engages in the transporta- tion of gas; 
[(I)](K) Person means any individual, firm, joint venture, partner- ship, corporation, association, county, state, municipality, political subdivision, cooperative association, or joint stock association, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative of them; 
[(J)](L) Pipeline or pipeline system means all parts of those phys- ical facilities through which gas moves in transportation including, but not limited to, pipe, valves, and other appurtenances attached to pipe, compressor units, metering stations, regulator stations, delivery stations, holders, and fabricated assemblies; 

Page 1582 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
[(K)](M) PHMSA means the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation; [and] 
[(L)](N) Transportation of gas means the gathering, transmission, or distribution of gas by pipeline, or the storage of gas in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce[.]; and 
(O) Underground natural gas storage facility means a facility that stores natural gas in an underground facility incident to nat- ural gas transportation, including— 
1. A depleted hydrocarbon reservoir; 2. An aquifer reservoir; or 3. A solution-mined salt cavern reservoir, including associat- 
ed material and equipment used for injection, withdrawal, mon- itoring, or observation wells, and wellhead equipment, piping, rights-of-way, property, buildings, compressor units, separators, metering equipment, and regulator equipment. 
(3) Immediate Notice of Federal Incidents. (191.5) (A) At the earliest practicable moment following discovery, but no 
later than one (1) hour after confirmed discovery, each operator shall give notice, in accordance with subsection (3)(B), of each fed- eral incident as defined in section (2) (191.3). 
(C) Within forty-eight (48) hours after the confirmed discovery of an incident, to the extent practicable, an operator must revise or confirm its initial telephonic notice required in subsection (3)(B) with an estimate of the amount of gas released, an estimate of the number of fatalities and injuries, and all other significant facts that are known by the operator that are relevant to the cause of the incident or extent of the damages. If there are no changes or revisions to the initial report, the operator must con- firm the estimates in its initial report. 
(7) Distribution System—Annual Report and Mechanical Fitting Failure Reports. 
(A) Annual Report. (191.11) 1. Except as provided in paragraph (7)(A)3., each operator of a 
distribution pipeline system must submit an annual report for that system on U.S. Department of Transportation Form PHMSA F 7100.1-1. This report must be submitted each year, not later than March 15, for the preceding calendar year. See the report submission requirements in subsection (5)(A). 
2. The annual report form (revised [May 2015] January 2017) is incorporated by reference and is published by U.S. Department of Transportation Office of Pipeline Safety, PHP-10, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington DC 20590-0001. The form is available at www.phmsa.dot.gov/pipeline/library/forms or upon request from the pipeline safety program manager at the address given in subsection (5)(E). The form does not include any amendments or additions to the [May 2015] January 2017 version. 
3. The annual report requirement in this subsection does not apply to a master meter system or to a petroleum gas system which serves fewer than one hundred (100) customers from a single source. 
(11) National Registry of Pipeline and LNG Operators (191.22) (A) OPID Request. 
1. Effective January 1, 2012, each operator of a gas pipeline, [or] gas pipeline facility, underground natural gas storage facility, LNG plant or LNG facility must obtain from PHMSA an Operator Identification Number (OPID). An OPID is assigned to an operator for the pipeline or pipeline system for which the operator has prima- ry responsibility. To obtain an OPID, an operator must complete an OPID Assignment Request (U.S. Department of Transportation Form PHMSA F 1000.1) through the National Registry of Pipeline and LNG Operators at http://portal.phmsa.dot.gov/pipeline unless an alternative reporting method is authorized in accordance with sub- section (5)(D). A copy of each submission to PHMSA must also be submitted concurrently to designated commission personnel—see addresses in subsection (5)(E). 
2. The OPID Assignment Request form (May 2015) is incorpo- rated by reference and is published by U.S. Department of Transportation Office of Pipeline Safety, PHP-10, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington DC 20590-0001. The form is available at www.phmsa.dot.gov/pipeline/library/forms or upon request from the pipeline safety program manager at the address given in subsection (5)(E). The form does not include any amendments or additions to the May 2015 version. 
(C) Changes. Each operator of a gas pipeline, [or] gas pipeline facility, underground natural gas storage facility, LNG plant or LNG facility must notify PHMSA electronically through the National Registry of Pipeline and LNG Operators at http://portal.phmsa.dot.gov/pipeline of certain events. A copy of each online notification must also be submitted concurrently to des- ignated commission personnel—see addresses in subsection (5)(E). 
1. An operator must notify PHMSA of any of the following events not later than sixty (60) days before the event occurs: 
A. Construction or any planned rehabilitation, replacement, modification, upgrade, uprate, or update of a facility, other than a section of line pipe, that costs ten (10) million dollars or more. If sixty- (60-) day notice is not feasible because of an emergency, an operator must notify PHMSA as soon as practicable; [or] 
B. Construction of ten (10) or more miles of a new or replacement pipeline[.]; 
C. Construction of a new LNG plant or LNG facility; 
D. Construction of a new underground natural gas storage facility or the abandonment, drilling, or well workover (including replacement of wellhead, tubing, or a new casing) of an injection, withdrawal, monitoring, or observation well for an underground natural gas storage facility; 
E. Reversal of product flow direction when the reversal is expected to last more than thirty (30) days. This notification is not required for pipeline systems already designed for bi-direc- tional flow; or 
F. A pipeline converted for service under 4 CSR 240- 40.030(1)(H) (192.14), or a change in commodity as reported on the annual report as required by section (10) (191.17). 
2. An operator must notify PHMSA of any of the following events not later than sixty (60) days after the event occurs: 
A. A change in the primary entity responsible (i.e., with an assigned OPID) for managing or administering a safety program required by this rule covering pipeline facilities operated under mul- tiple OPIDs; 
B. A change in the name of the operator; 
C. A change in the entity (e.g., company, municipality) responsible for an existing pipeline, pipeline segment, [or] pipeline facility, underground natural gas storage facility, or LNG facility; [or] 
D. The acquisition or divestiture of fifty (50) or more miles of a pipeline or pipeline system subject to 4 CSR 240-40.030[.]; 
E. The acquisition or divestiture of an existing LNG plant or LNG facility subject to 49 CFR Part 193; or 
F. The acquisition or divestiture of an existing under- ground natural gas storage facility subject to 49 CFR part 192. 
(12) Reporting Safety-Related Conditions. (191.23) (A) Except as provided in subsection (12)(B), each operator must 
report in accordance with section (13) (191.25) the existence of any of the following safety-related conditions involving facilities in ser- vice: 
1. In the case of [the] a pipeline (other than an LNG facility) that operates at a hoop stress of twenty percent (20%) or more of its specified minimum yield strength, general corrosion that has reduced the wall thickness to less than that required for the maximum allow- able operating pressure and localized corrosion pitting to a degree where leakage might result; 
2. Unintended movement or abnormal loading by environmental causes, for instance, an earthquake, landslide, or flood, that impairs 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1583 

the serviceability of a pipeline; 3. Any material defect or physical damage that impairs the ser- 
viceability of a pipeline that operates at a hoop stress of twenty per- cent (20%) or more of its specified minimum yield strength; 
4. Any malfunction or operating error that causes the pressure of a pipeline to rise above its maximum allowable operating pressure plus the buildup allowed for operation of pressure limiting or control devices; 
5. A leak in a pipeline that constitutes an emergency; and 
6. Any safety-related condition that could lead to an imminent hazard and causes (either directly or indirectly by remedial action of the operator), for purposes other than abandonment, a twenty per- cent (20%) or more reduction in operating pressure or shutdown of operation of a pipeline. 
(13) Filing Safety-Related Condition Reports. (191.25) (A) Each report of a safety-related condition under subsection (12)(A) must be filed (received by the Office of Pipeline Safety at PHMSA and designated commission personnel) within five (5) work- ing days (not including Saturday, Sunday, or federal holidays) after the day a representative of the operator first determines that the con- dition exists, but not later than ten (10) working days after the day a representative of the operator discovers the possibility of a condition. Separate conditions may be described in a single report if they are closely related. See the report submission requirements in subsection (5)(C). Reports may be transmitted by electronic mail to [Informa- tionResourceManager@dot.gov] InformationResourcesManag- er@dot.gov and PipelineSafetyProgramManager@psc.mo.gov. To file a report by telefacsimile (fax), dial (202) 366-7128 for the Office of Pipeline Safety and (573) 522-1946 for designated commission 
personnel. 
AUTHORITY: sections 386.250, 386.310, and 393.140, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed Feb. 5, 1970, effective Feb. 26, 1970. For inter- vening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 4, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. GX-2018-0279. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for August 20, 2018 at 10:00 a.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this pro- posed amendment, and may be asked to respond to commission ques- tions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 40—Gas Utilities and Gas Safety Standards 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
4 CSR 240-40.030 Safety Standards—Transportation of Gas by Pipeline. The commission is amending sections (1), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), (13), (14), (15), and (17). 
PURPOSE: This amendment modifies the rule to address amend- ments of 49 CFR part 192 promulgated between January 2016 and September 2017 and makes clarification and editorial changes. 
(1) General. (B) Definitions. (192.3) As used in this rule— 
1. Abandoned means permanently removed from service; 
2. Active corrosion means continuing corrosion that, unless controlled, could result in a condition that is detrimental to public safety; 
3. Administrator means the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation to whom authority in the matters of pipeline safety have been delegated by the Secretary of the United States Department of Transportation, or his or her delegate; 
4. Alarm means an audible or visible means of indicating to the controller that equipment or processes are outside operator-defined, safety-related parameters; 
5. Building means any structure that is regularly or periodically occupied by people; 
6. Commission means the Missouri Public Service Commission; 
7. Control room means an operations center staffed by person- nel charged with the responsibility for remotely monitoring and con- trolling a pipeline facility; 
8. Controller means a qualified individual who remotely moni- tors and controls the safety-related operations of a pipeline facility via a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system from a control room, and who has operational authority and accountability for the remote operational functions of the pipeline facility; 
9. Customer meter means the meter that measures the transfer of gas from an operator to a consumer; 
10. Designated commission personnel means the pipeline safety program manager at the address contained in 4 CSR 240- 40.020(5)(E) for [required] correspondence; 
11. Distribution line means a pipeline other than a gathering or transmission line; 
12. Electrical survey means a series of closely spaced pipe-to- soil readings over pipelines which are subsequently analyzed to iden- tify locations where a corrosive current is leaving the pipeline, except that other indirect examination tools/methods can be used for an electrical survey included in the federal regulations in 49 CFR part 192, subpart O and appendix E (incorporated by reference in section (16)); 
13. Feeder line means a distribution line that has a maximum allowable operating pressure (MAOP) greater than 100 psi (689 kPa) gauge that produces hoop stresses less than twenty percent (20%) of specified minimum yield strength (SMYS); 
14. Follow-up inspection means an inspection performed after a repair procedure has been completed in order to determine the effec- tiveness of the repair and to ensure that all hazardous leaks in the area are corrected; 
15. Fuel line means the customer-owned gas piping downstream from the outlet of the customer meter or operator-owned pipeline, whichever is farther downstream; 
16. Gas means natural gas, flammable gas, manufactured gas, or gas which is toxic or corrosive; 
17. Gathering line means a pipeline that transports gas from a 

Page 1584 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
current production facility to a transmission line or main; 18. High-pressure distribution system means a distribution sys- tem in which the gas pressure in the main is higher than an equiva- 
lent to fourteen inches (14") water column; 19. Hoop stress means the stress in a pipe wall acting circum- 
ferentially in a plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the pipe produced by the pressure in the pipe; 
20. Listed specification means a specification listed in subsec- tion I. of Appendix B, which is included herein (at the end of this rule); 
21. Low-pressure distribution system means a distribution sys- tem in which the gas pressure in the main is less than or equal to an equivalent of fourteen inches (14") water column; 
22. Main means a distribution line that serves as a common source of supply for more than one (1) service line; 
23. Maximum actual operating pressure means the maximum pressure that occurs during normal operations over a period of one (1) year; 
24. Maximum allowable operating pressure (MAOP) means the maximum pressure at which a pipeline or segment of a pipeline may be operated under this rule; 
25. Municipality means a city, village, or town; 
26. Operator means a person who engages in the transportation of gas; 
27. Person means any individual, firm, joint venture, partner- ship, corporation, association, county, state, municipality, political subdivision, cooperative association, or joint stock association, and including any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative of them; 
28. Petroleum gas means propane, propylene, butane (normal butane or isobutanes), and butylene (including isomers), or mixtures composed predominantly of these gases, having a vapor pressure not exceeding 208 psi (1434 kPa) gauge at 100°F (38°C); 
29. PHMSA means the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation; 
30. Pipe means any pipe or tubing used in the transportation of gas, including pipe-type holders; 
31. Pipeline means all parts of those physical facilities through which gas moves in transportation, including pipe, valves, and other appurtenances attached to pipe, compressor units, metering stations, regulator stations, delivery stations, holders, and fabricated assem- blies; 
32. Pipeline environment includes soil resistivity (high or low), soil moisture (wet or dry), soil contaminants that may promote cor- rosive activity, and other known conditions that could affect the prob- ability of active corrosion; 
33. Pipeline facility means new and existing pipelines, rights-of- way, and any equipment, facility, or building used in the transporta- tion of gas or in the treatment of gas during the course of transporta- tion; 
34. Reading means the highest sustained reading when testing in a bar hole or opening without induced ventilation; 
35. Service line means a distribution line that transports gas from a common source of supply to an individual customer, to two (2) adjacent or adjoining residential or small commercial customers, or to multiple residential or small commercial customers served through a meter header or manifold. A service line ends at the outlet of the customer meter or at the connection to a customer’s piping, whichever is further downstream, or at the connection to customer piping if there is no meter; 
36. Service regulator means the device on a service line that controls the pressure of gas delivered from a higher pressure to the pressure provided to the customer. A service regulator may serve one (1) customer or multiple customers through a meter header or manifold; 
37. SMYS means specified minimum yield strength is— A. For steel pipe manufactured in accordance with a listed 
specification, the yield strength specified as a minimum in that spec- ification; or 
B. For steel pipe manufactured in accordance with an unknown or unlisted specification, the yield strength determined in accordance with paragraph (3)(D)2. (192.107[b]); 
38. Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system means a computer-based system or systems used by a controller in a control room that collects and displays information about a pipeline facility and may have the ability to send commands back to the pipeline facility; 
39. Sustained reading means the reading taken on a combustible gas indicator unit after adequately venting the test hole or opening; 
40. Transmission line means a pipeline, other than a gathering line, that— 
A. Transports gas from a gathering line or storage facility to a distribution center, storage facility, or large volume customer that is not downstream from a distribution center (A large volume cus- tomer may receive similar volumes of gas as a distribution center, and includes factories, power plants, and institutional users of gas.); 
B. Operates at a hoop stress of twenty percent (20%) or more of SMYS; or 
C. Transports gas within a storage field; 41. Transportation of gas means the gathering, transmission, or 
distribution of gas by pipeline or the storage of gas in Missouri; 42. Tunnel means a subsurface passageway large enough for a 
man to enter; 43. Vault or manhole means a subsurface structure that a man 
can enter; 44. Welder means a person who performs manual or semi-auto- 
matic welding; 45. Welding operator means a person who operates machine or 
automatic welding equipment; and 46. Yard line means an underground fuel line that transports gas 
from the service line to the customer’s building. If multiple build- ings are being served, building [shall] means the building nearest to the connection to the service line. For purposes of this definition, if aboveground fuel line piping at the meter location is located within five feet (5') of a building being served by that meter, it [shall] will be considered to the customer’s building and no yard line exists. At meter locations where aboveground fuel line piping is located greater than five feet (5') from the building(s) being served, the underground fuel line from the meter to the entrance into the nearest building served by that meter [shall] will be considered the yard line and any other lines are not considered yard lines. 
(D) Incorporation By Reference of the Federal Regulation at 49 CFR 192.7. (192.7) 
1. As set forth in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) dated October 1, [2015] 2017, the federal regulation at 49 CFR 192.7 is incorporated by reference and made a part of this rule. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments to 49 CFR 192.7. 
2. The Code of Federal Regulations and the Federal Register are published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001. The October 1, [2015] 2017 version of 49 CFR part 192 is available at www.gpo.gov/fdsys/search/showcitation.action. 
3. The regulation at 49 CFR 192.7 provides a listing of the doc- uments that are incorporated by reference partly or wholly in 49 CFR part 192, which is the federal counterpart and foundation for this rule. All incorporated materials are available for inspection from several sources, including the following sources: 
A. The Office of Pipeline Safety, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590. For more information, contact 202-366-4046 or go to the PHMSA website at www.phmsa.dot.gov/pipeline/regs; 
B. The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, go to the NARA website at www.archives.gov/federal-regis- ter/cfr/ibr-locations.html or call 202–741–6030 or 866-272-6272; 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1585 

and C. Copies of standards incorporated by reference can also be 
purchased or are otherwise made available from the respective stan- dards-developing organizations listed in 49 CFR 192.7. 
4. Federal amendment 192-94 (published in Federal Register on June 14, 2004, page 69 FR 32886) moved the listing of incorporated documents to 49 CFR 192.7 from 49 CFR part 192−Appendix A, which is now “Reserved”. This listing of documents was in Appendix A to this rule prior to the 2008 amendment of this rule. As of the 2008 amendment, Appendix A to this rule is also “Reserved” and included herein. 
(E) Gathering Lines. (192.8 and 192.9) 1. As set forth in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) dated 
October 1, [2015] 2017, the federal regulations at 49 CFR 192.8 and 192.9 are incorporated by reference and made a part of this rule. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments to 49 CFR 192.8 and 192.9. 
2. The Code of Federal Regulations is published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001. The October 1, [2015] 2017 version of 49 CFR part 192 is available at www.gpo.gov/fdsys/search/showcitation.action. 
3. The regulations at 49 CFR 192.8 and 192.9 provide the requirements for gathering lines. The requirements for offshore lines are not applicable to Missouri. 
(F) Petroleum Gas Systems. (192.11) 1. Each plant that supplies petroleum gas by pipeline to a nat- 
ural gas distribution system must meet the requirements of this rule and of NFPA 58 and NFPA 59 (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)). 
2. Each pipeline system subject to this rule that transports only petroleum gas or petroleum gas/air mixtures must meet the require- ments of this rule and of NFPA 58 and NFPA 59 (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)). 
3. In the event of a conflict between this rule and NFPA 58 and NFPA 59 (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)), NFPA 58 and NFPA 59 prevail. 
(H) Conversion to Service Subject to this Rule. (192.14) 1. Except as provided in paragraph [(1)(H)3.] (1)(H)4., a steel pipeline previously used in service not subject to this rule qualifies for use under this rule if the operator prepares and follows a written 
procedure to carry out the following requirements: A. The design, construction, operation, and maintenance his- 
tory of the pipeline must be reviewed and, where sufficient historical records are not available, appropriate tests must be performed to determine if the pipeline is in a satisfactory condition for safe oper- ation; 
B. The pipeline right-of-way, all aboveground segments of the pipeline, and appropriately selected underground segments must be visually inspected for physical defects and operating conditions which reasonably could be expected to impair the strength or tight- ness of the pipeline; 
C. All known unsafe defects and conditions must be correct- ed in accordance with this rule; and 
D. The pipeline must be tested in accordance with section (10) to substantiate the maximum allowable operating pressure per- mitted by section (12). 
2. Each operator must keep for the life of the pipeline a record of investigations, tests, repairs, replacements, and alterations made under the requirements of paragraph (1)(H)1. 
3. An operator converting a pipeline from service not previ- ously covered by this rule must notify PHMSA and designated commission personnel sixty (60) days before the conversion occurs as required by 4 CSR 240-40.020(11). 
[3.]4. This paragraph lists situations where steel pipe may not be converted to service subject to this rule. 
A. Steel yard lines that are not cathodically protected must be replaced under subsection (15)(C). 
B. Buried steel fuel lines that are not cathodically protected may not be converted to a pipeline as defined in subsection (1)(B), such as a service line or main. 
C. Buried steel pipes that are not cathodically protected may not be converted to a service line. 
D. Buried steel pipes that are not cathodically protected may not be converted to a main in Class 3 and Class 4 locations. 
(J) Filing of Required Plans, Procedures, and Programs. 1. Each operator shall submit to designated commission person- nel all plans, procedures, and programs required by this rule (to include welding and joining procedures, construction standards, con- trol room management procedures, corrosion control procedures, damage prevention program, distribution integrity management plan, emergency procedures, public education program, operator qualifica- tion program, replacement programs, transmission integrity manage- ment program, and procedural manual for operations, maintenance, and emergencies). In addition, each change must be submitted to designated commission personnel within twenty (20) days after the 
change is made. 
2. All operators under the pipeline safety jurisdiction of the Missouri Public Service Commission must establish and submit welding procedures, joining procedures, and construction speci- fications and standards to designated commission personnel before construction activities begin. All other plans, procedures and programs required by rules 4 CSR 240-40.020, 4 CSR 240- 40.030, and 4 CSR 240-40.080 must be established and submit- ted to designated commission personnel before the system is put into operation. 
3. A written plan for drug and alcohol testing in accordance with 4 CSR 240-40.080 must be submitted to designated commis- sion personnel. 
(L) Customer Notification, [Required by] Paragraph (12)(S)2. When providing gas service to a new customer or a customer relo- cated from a different operating district, [the operator must pro- vide the customer notification required by] see paragraph (12)(S)2. regarding applicable customer notification. 
(3) Pipe Design. 
(L) Additional Design Requirements for Steel Pipe Using Alternative Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure. (192.112) The federal regulations at 49 CFR 192.112 are not adopted in this rule. 
(4) Design of Pipeline Components. (S) Pipe-Type and Bottle-Type Holders. (192.175) 
1. Each pipe-type and bottle-type holder must be designed so as to prevent the accumulation of liquids in the holder, in connecting pipe or in auxiliary equipment that might cause corrosion or interfere with the safe operation of the holder. 
2. Each pipe-type or bottle-type holder must have a minimum clearance from other holders in accordance with the following for- mula: 
C = (3D × P × F)/1000 (in inches) (C=(3D×P×F) /[2298] 6,895) (in millimeters) 
where C = Minimum clearance between pipe containers or bottles in 
inches (millimeters); D = Outside diameter of pipe containers or bottles in inches (mil- 
limeters); P = Maximum allowable operating pressure, psi (kPa) gauge; and F =Design factor as set forth in subsection (3)(F) (192.111). 
(5) Welding of Steel in Pipelines. (B) General. [(192.223)] 
1. Welding [must] is only to be performed in accordance with established written welding procedures that have been qualified under subsection (5)(C) (192.225) to produce sound, ductile welds. 
2. Welding [must] is only to be performed by welders who are 

Page 1586 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
qualified under subsections (5)(D) and (E) (192.227 and 192.229) for the welding procedure to be used. 
(C) Welding Procedures. (192.225) 1. Welding must be performed by a qualified welder or welding 
operator in accordance with welding procedures qualified under sec- tion 5, section 12, [or] Appendix A, or Appendix B of API Standard 1104 (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)) or section IX of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)) to produce welds meeting the requirements of section (5) of this rule. The quality of the test welds used to qualify welding procedures must be determined by destruc- tive testing in accordance with the referenced welding standard(s). 
2. Each welding procedure must be recorded in detail, including the results of the qualifying tests. This record must be retained and followed whenever the procedure is used. 
(D) Qualification of Welders and Welding Operators. (192.227) 1. Except as provided in paragraph (5)(D)2., each welder or welding operator must be qualified in accordance with section 6, sec- tion 12, [or] Appendix A, or Appendix B of API Standard 1104 (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsec- tion (1)(D)) or section IX of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)). However, a welder or welding operator quali- fied under an earlier edition of a standard than listed in 49 CFR 192.7 (see subsection (1)(D)) may weld but may not requalify under 
that earlier edition. 2. A welder may qualify to perform welding on pipe to be oper- 
ated at a pressure that produces a hoop stress of less than twenty per- cent (20%) of SMYS by performing an acceptable test weld, for the process to be used, under the test set forth in subsection I. of Appendix C, which is included herein (at the end of this rule). Each welder who is to make a welded service line connection to a main must first perform an acceptable test weld under subsection II. of Appendix C as a requirement of the qualifying test. 
(6) Joining of Materials Other Than by Welding. (G) Plastic Pipe—Qualifying Joining Procedures. (192.283) 
1. Heat fusion, solvent cement, and adhesive joints. Before any written procedure established under paragraph (6)(B)2. is used for making plastic pipe joints by a heat fusion, solvent cement, or adhe- sive method, the procedure must be qualified by subjecting specimen joints made according to the procedure to the following tests: 
A. The burst test requirements of— (I) In the case of thermoplastic pipe, paragraph 6.6 
(Sustained Pressure Test) or paragraph 6.7 (Minimum Hydrostatic Burst Pressure) [or paragraph 8.9 (Sustained Static Pressure Test)] of ASTM D2513-99 (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)) for plastic materials other than polyethylene or ASTM D2513-09A (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)) for polyethylene plastic materials; 
(II) (Reserved); or 
(III) In the case of electrofusion fittings for polyethylene pipe and tubing, paragraph 9.1 (Minimum Hydraulic Burst Pressure Test), paragraph 9.2 (Sustained Pressure Test), paragraph 9.3 (Tensile Strength Test), or paragraph 9.4 (Joint Integrity Tests) of ASTM F1055 (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)); 
B. For procedures intended for lateral pipe connections, sub- ject a specimen joint made from pipe sections joined at right angles according to the procedure to a force on the lateral pipe until failure occurs in the specimen. If failure initiates outside the joint area, the procedure qualifies for use; and 
C. For procedures intended for nonlateral pipe connections, follow the tensile test requirements of ASTM D638 (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)), except that the test may be conducted at ambient temperature and humidity. 
If the specimen elongates no less than twenty-five percent (25%) or failure initiates outside the joint area, the procedure qualifies for use. 2. Mechanical joints. Before any written procedure established under paragraph (6)(B)2. is used for making mechanical plastic pipe joints that are designed to withstand tensile forces, the procedure must be qualified by subjecting five (5) specimen joints made accord- 
ing to the procedure to the following tensile test: A. Use an apparatus for the test as specified in ASTM D638 
(except for conditioning), (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in subsection (1)(D)); 
B. The specimen must be of such length that the distance between the grips of the apparatus and the end of the stiffener does not affect the joint strength; 
C. The speed of testing is 0.20 inches (5.0 mm) per minute, plus or minus twenty-five percent (25%); 
D. Pipe specimens less than four inches (4") (102 mm) in diameter are qualified if the pipe yields to an elongation of no less than twenty-five percent (25%) or failure initiates outside the joint area; 
E. Pipe specimens four inches (4") (102 mm) and larger in diameter shall be pulled until the pipe is subjected to a tensile stress equal to or greater than the maximum thermal stress that would be produced by a temperature change of 100°F (38°C) or until the pipe is pulled from the fitting. If the pipe pulls from the fitting, the lowest value of the five (5) test results or the manufacturer’s rating, whichever is lower, must be used in the design calculations for stress; 
F. Each specimen that fails at the grips must be retested using new pipe; and 
G. Results obtained pertain only to the specific outside diam- eter and material of the pipe tested, except that testing of a heavier wall pipe may be used to qualify pipe of the same material but with a lesser wall thickness. 
3. A copy of each written procedure being used for joining plas- tic pipe must be available to the persons making and inspecting joints. 
4. Pipe or fittings manufactured before July 1, 1980 may be used in accordance with procedures that the manufacturer certifies will produce a joint as strong as the pipe. 
(7) General Construction Requirements for Transmission Lines and Mains. 
(O) Additional Construction Requirements for Steel Pipe Using Alternative Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure. (192.328). The federal regulations at 49 CFR 192.328 are not adopted in this rule. 
(8) Customer Meters, Service Regulators, and Service Lines. (O) Service Lines—Excess Flow Valve Performance Standards. 
(192.381) 1. Excess flow valves to be used on [single residence] service 
lines that operate continuously throughout the year at a pressure not less than ten (10) psi (69 kPa) must be manufactured and tested by the manufacturer according to an industry specification, or the man- ufacturer’s written specification, to ensure that each valve will— 
A. Function properly up to the maximum operating pressure at which the valve is rated; 
B. Function properly at all temperatures reasonably expected in the operating environment of the service line; 
C. At ten (10) psi (69 kPa) gauge: (I) Close at, or not more than fifty percent (50%) above, 
the rated closure flow rate specified by the manufacturer; and (II) Upon closure, reduce gas flow— 
(a) For an excess flow valve designed to allow pressure to equalize across the valve, to no more than five percent (5%) of the manufacturer’s specified closure flow rate, up to a maximum of twenty (20) cubic feet per hour (0.57 cubic meters per hours); or 
(b) For an excess flow valve designed to prevent equal- ization of pressure across the valve, to no more than 0.4 cubic feet 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1587 

per hour (0.01 cubic meters per hour); and D. Not close when the pressure is less than the manufactur- 
er’s minimum specified operating pressure and the flow rate is below the manufacturer’s minimum specified closure flow rate. 
2. An excess flow valve must meet the applicable requirements of sections (2) and (4). 
3. An operator must mark or otherwise identify the presence of an excess flow valve in the service line. 
4. An operator shall locate an excess flow valve as near as prac- tical to the fitting connecting the service line to its source of gas sup- ply. 
5. An operator should not install an excess flow valve on a ser- vice line where the operator has prior experience with contaminants in the gas stream, where these contaminants could be expected to cause the excess flow valve to malfunction or where the excess flow valve would interfere with necessary operation and maintenance activities on the service line, such as blowing liquids from the service line. 
(P) Excess Flow Valve Installation. (192.383) 1. Definitions for subsection (8)(P). 
A. Branched service line means a gas service line that begins at the existing service line or is installed concurrently with the primary service line but serves a separate residence. 
[A.]B. Replaced service line means a gas service line where the fitting that connects the service line to the main is replaced or the piping connected to this fitting is replaced. 
[B.]C. Service line serving single-family residence means a gas service line that begins at the fitting that connects the service line to the main and serves only one (1) single-family residence. 
2. Installation required. An excess flow valve (EFV) installation must comply with the performance standards in subsection (8)(O). [The operator must install an EFV on any new or replaced service line serving a single-family residence after February 12, 2010, unless one (1) or more of the following conditions is present] After April 14, 2017, each operator must install an EFV on any new or replaced service line serving the following types of services before the line is activated: 
A. A single service line to one single family residence; 
B. A branched service line to a single family residence installed concurrently with the primary single family residence service line (i.e., a single EFV may be installed to protect both service lines); 
C. A branched service line to a single family residence installed off a previously installed single family residence service line that does not contain an EFV; 
D. Multifamily residences with known customer loads not exceeding 1,000 SCFH per service, at time of service installation, based on installed meter capacity; and 
E. A single, small commercial customer served by a single service line with a known customer load not exceeding 1,000 SCFH, at the time of meter installation, based on installed meter capacity. 
3. Exceptions to excess flow valve installation requirement. An operator need not install an excess flow valve if one (1) or more of the following conditions are present: 
A. The service line does not operate at a pressure of ten (10) psi gauge or greater throughout the year; 
B. The operator has prior experience with contaminants in the gas stream that could interfere with the EFV’s operation or cause loss of service to a residence; 
C. An EFV could interfere with necessary operation or main- tenance activities, such as blowing liquids from the line; or 
D. An EFV meeting performance standards in subsection (8)(O) is not commercially available to the operator. 
4. Customer’s right to request an EFV. Existing service line customers who desire an EFV on service lines not exceeding 1,000 SCFH and who do not qualify for one (1) of the exceptions in paragraph (8)(P)3. may request an EFV to be installed on their 
service lines. If an eligible service line customer requests an EFV installation, an operator must install the EFV at a mutually agreeable date. The operator’s rate-setter determines how and to whom the costs of the requested EFVs are distributed. 
5. Operator notification of customers concerning EFV installation. Operators must notify customers of their right to request an EFV in the following manner: 
A. Except as specified in (8)(P)3. and (8)(P)5.E., each operator must provide written or electronic notification to cus- tomers of their right to request the installation of an EFV. Electronic notification can include emails, website postings, and e-billing notices. 
B. The notification must include an explanation for the service line customer of the potential safety benefits that may be derived from installing an EFV. The explanation must include information that an EFV is designed to shut off the flow of nat- ural gas automatically if the service line breaks. 
C. The notification must include a description of EFV installation and replacement costs. The notice must alert the cus- tomer that the costs for maintaining and replacing an EFV may later be incurred, and what those costs will be to the extent known. 
D. The notification must indicate that if a service line cus- tomer requests installation of an EFV and the load does not exceed 1,000 SCFH and the conditions of paragraph (8)(P)3. are not present, the operator must install an EFV at a mutually agreeable date. 
E. Operators of master-meter systems may continuously post a general notification in a prominent location frequented by customers. 
6. Operator evidence of customer notification. An operator must make a copy of the notice or notices currently in use avail- able during inspections conducted by designated commission per- sonnel. 
[3.]7. Reporting. Except for operators of master meter sys- tems, [E]each operator must report the EFV measures detailed in the annual report required by 4 CSR 240-40.020(7)(A). 
(Q) Manual Service Line Shut-Off Valve Installation (192.385) 1. Definitions for subsection (8)(Q). 
Manual service line shut-off valve means a curb valve or other manually operated valve located near the service line that is safe- ly accessible to operator personnel or other personnel authorized by the operator to manually shut off gas flow to the service line, if needed. 
2. Installation requirement. The operator must install either a manual service line shut-off valve or, if possible, based on sound engineering analysis and availability, an EFV for any new or replaced service line with installed meter capacity exceeding 1,000 SCFH. 
3. Accessibility and maintenance. Manual service line shut- off valves for any new or replaced service line must be installed in such a way as to allow accessibility during emergencies. Manual service shut-off valves installed under this subsection are subject to regular scheduled maintenance, as documented by the operator and consistent with the valve manufacturer’s specifica- tion. 
(9) Requirements for Corrosion Control. (B) How Does this [Subsection] Section Apply to Converted 
Pipelines and Regulated Onshore Gathering Lines? (192.452) 1. Converted pipelines. Notwithstanding the date the pipeline was installed or any earlier deadlines for compliance, each pipeline which qualifies for use under this rule in accordance with subsection (1)(H) must have a cathodic protection system designed to protect the pipeline in its entirety in accordance with subsection (9)(H) within 
one (1) year after the pipeline is readied for service. 2. Regulated onshore gathering lines. For any regulated onshore gathering line to which 49 CFR 192.8 and 192.9 did not apply until 

Page 1588 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
April 14, 2006, and for any gathering line that becomes a regulated onshore gathering line under subsection (1)(E) because of a change in class location or increase in dwelling density: 
A. The requirements of this section specifically applicable to pipelines installed before August 1, 1971, apply to the gathering line regardless of the date the pipeline was actually installed; and 
B. The requirements of this section specifically applicable to pipelines installed after July 31, 1971, apply only if the pipeline sub- stantially meets those requirements. 
(I) External Corrosion Control—Monitoring. (192.465) 1. Each pipeline that is under cathodic protection must be tested at least once each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding fif- teen (15) months, to determine whether the cathodic protection meets the requirements of subsection (9)(H). (192.463) However, if tests at those intervals are impractical for separately protected short sections of mains or transmission lines, not in excess of one hundred feet (100’) (thirty meters (30 m)), or separately protected service lines, these pipelines may be surveyed on a sampling basis. At least twenty percent (20%) of these protected structures, distributed over the entire system, must be surveyed each calendar year, with a dif- ferent twenty percent (20%) checked each subsequent year, so that the entire system is tested in each five- (5-) year period. Each short section of metallic pipe less than one hundred feet (100’) (thirty meters (30 m)) in length installed and cathodically protected in accordance with paragraph (9)(R)2. (192.483[b]), each segment of pipe cathodically protected in accordance with paragraph (9)(R)3. (192.483[c]) and each electrically isolated metallic fitting not meet- ing the requirements of paragraph (9)(D)5. (192.455[f]) must be monitored at a minimum rate of ten percent (10%) each calendar year, with a different ten percent (10%) checked each subsequent 
year, so that the entire system is tested every ten (10) years. 2. Each cathodic protection rectifier or other impressed current power source must be inspected six (6) times each calendar year but with intervals not exceeding two and one-half (2 1/2) months to 
ensure that it is operating. 3. Each reverse current switch, each diode, and each interfer- 
ence bond whose failure would jeopardize structure protection must be electrically checked for proper performance six (6) times each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding two and one-half (2 1/2) months. Each other interference bond must be checked at least once each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding fifteen (15) months. 
4. Each operator shall take prompt remedial action to correct any deficiencies indicated by the monitoring [required] set forth in paragraphs (9)(I)1.–3. Corrective measures must be completed with- in six (6) months unless otherwise approved by designated commis- sion personnel. 
5. After the initial evaluation required by paragraphs (9)(D)2. and (9)(E)2., each operator must, not less than every three (3) years at intervals not exceeding thirty-nine (39) months, reevaluate its unprotected pipelines and cathodically protect them in accordance with section (9) in areas in which active corrosion is found[, except that unprotected steel service lines must be replaced as required by]. Unprotected steel service lines are subject to replacement pursuant to subsection (15)(C). The operator must determine the areas of active corrosion by electrical survey. However, on distribution lines and where an electrical survey is impractical on transmission lines, areas of active corrosion may be determined by other means that include review and analysis of leak repair and inspection records, corrosion monitoring records, exposed pipe inspection records, the pipeline environment, and by instrument leak detection surveys (see subsections (13)(D) and (13)(M)). When the operator conducts electrical surveys, the operator must demonstrate that the surveys effectively identify areas of active corrosion. 
(12) Operations. (B) General Provisions. (192.603) 
1. No person may operate a segment of pipeline unless it is 
operated in accordance with this section. 2. Each operator shall keep records necessary to administer the 
procedures established under subsection (12)(C). (192.605) 3. Each operator [shall be] is responsible for ensuring that all work completed on its pipelines by its consultants and contractors 
complies with this rule. 4. Designated commission personnel may require the operator 
to amend its plans and procedures as necessary to provide a reason- able level of safety. In the event of a dispute between designated com- mission personnel and the operator with respect to the appropriate- ness of a required amendment, the operator may file with the com- mission a request for a hearing before the commission, or the desig- nated commission personnel may request that a complaint be filed against the operator by the general counsel of the commission. 
(C) Procedural Manual for Operations, Maintenance, and Emergencies. (192.605) 
1. General. Each operator shall prepare and follow for each pipeline, a manual of written procedures for conducting operations and maintenance activities and for emergency response. For trans- mission lines that are not exempt under subparagraph (12)(C)3.E., the manual must also include procedures for handling abnormal operations. This manual must be reviewed and updated by the oper- ator at intervals not exceeding fifteen (15) months, but at least once each calendar year. [The manual must be revised, as necessary, within one (1) year of the effective date of revisions to this rule.] This manual must be prepared before initial operations of a pipeline system commence and appropriate parts of the manual must be kept at locations where operations and maintenance activities are conducted. 
2. Maintenance and normal operations. The manual required by paragraph (12)(C)1. must include procedures for the following, if applicable, to provide safety during maintenance and normal opera- tions: 
A. Operating, maintaining, and repairing the pipeline in accordance with each of the requirements of this section and sections (13) and (14); 
B. Controlling corrosion in accordance with the operations and maintenance requirements of section (9); 
C. Making construction records, maps, and operating history available to appropriate operating personnel; 
D. Gathering of data needed for reporting incidents under 4 CSR 240-40.020 in a timely and effective manner; 
E. Starting up and shutting down any part of a pipeline in a manner designed to assure operation within the MAOP limits pre- scribed by this rule, plus the build-up allowed for operation of pres- sure limiting and control devices; 
F. Maintaining compressor stations, including provisions for isolating units or sections of pipe and for purging before return- ing to service; 
G. Starting, operating, and shutting down gas compressor units; 
H. Periodically reviewing the work done by operator person- nel to determine the effectiveness and adequacy of the procedures used in normal operation and maintenance and modifying the proce- dures when deficiencies are found; 
I. Inspecting periodically to ensure that operating pressures are appropriate for the class location; 
J. Taking adequate precautions in excavated trenches to pro- tect personnel from the hazards of unsafe accumulations of vapor or gas, and making available, when needed at the excavation, emergency rescue equipment including a breathing apparatus and a rescue har- ness and line; 
K. Systematically and routinely testing and inspecting pipe- type or bottle-type holders including: 
(I) Provision for detecting external corrosion before the strength of the container has been impaired; 
(II) Periodic sampling and testing of gas in storage to deter- mine the dew point of vapors contained in the stored gas that, if con- densed, might cause internal corrosion or interfere with the safe 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1589 

operation of the storage plant; and (III) Periodic inspection and testing of pressure limiting 
equipment to determine that it is in a safe operating condition and has adequate capacity; 
L. Continuing observations during all routine activities including, but not limited to, meter reading and cathodic protection work, for the purpose of detecting potential leaks by observing veg- etation and odors. Potential leak indications must be recorded and responded to in accordance with section (14); 
M. Testing and inspecting of customer-owned gas piping and equipment in accordance with subsection (12)(S); 
N. Responding promptly to a report of a gas odor inside or near a building, unless the operator’s emergency procedures under subparagraph (12)(J)1.C. specifically apply to these reports; and 
O. Implementing the applicable control room management procedures required by subsection (12)(T). 
3. Abnormal operation. For transmission lines the manual required by paragraph (12)(C)1. must include procedures for the fol- lowing to provide safety when operating design limits have been exceeded: 
A. Responding to, investigating, and correcting the cause of— 
(I) Unintended closure of valves or shutdowns; 
(II) Increase or decrease in pressure or flow rate outside normal operating limits; 
(III) Loss of communications; (IV) Operation of any safety device; and (V) Any other foreseeable malfunction of a component, 
deviation from normal operation, or personnel error which could cause a hazard to persons or property; 
B. Checking variations from normal operation after abnormal operation has ended at sufficient critical locations in the system to determine continued integrity and safe operation; 
C. Notifying responsible operator personnel when notice of an abnormal operation is received; 
D. Periodically reviewing the response of operator personnel to determine the effectiveness of the procedures controlling abnormal operation and taking corrective action where deficiencies are found; and 
E. The requirements of this paragraph (12)(C)3. do not apply to natural gas distribution operations that are operating transmission lines in connection with their distribution system. 
4. Safety-related conditions. The manual required by paragraph (12)(C)1. must include instructions enabling personnel who perform operation and maintenance activities to recognize conditions that potentially may be safety-related conditions that are subject to the commission’s reporting requirements. 
5. Surveillance, emergency response, and accident investiga- tion. The procedures required by paragraph (12)(H)1. and subsec- tions (12)(J) and (L) (192.613[a], 192.615 and 192.617) must be included in the manual required by paragraph (12)(C)1. 
(D) Qualification of Pipeline Personnel. 1. Scope. (192.801) 
A. This subsection prescribes the minimum requirements for operator qualification of individuals performing covered tasks on a pipeline facility. This subsection applies to all individuals who per- form covered tasks, regardless of whether they are employed by the operator, a contractor, a subcontractor, or any other entity perform- ing covered tasks on behalf of the operator. 
B. For the purpose of this subsection, a covered task is an activity, identified by the operator, that— 
fied by the operator that may indicate a malfunction of a component or deviation from normal operations that may: 
(I) Indicate a condition exceeding design limits; 
(II) Result in a hazard(s) to persons, property, or the envi- ronment; or 
(III) Require an emergency response. B. Evaluation (or evaluate) means a process consisting of 
training and examination, established and documented by the opera- tor, to determine an individual’s ability to perform a covered task and to demonstrate that an individual possesses the knowledge and skills under paragraph (12)(D)4. After initial evaluation for paragraph (12)(D)4., subsequent evaluations for paragraph (12)(D)4. can con- sist of examination only. The examination portion of this process [shall] may be conducted by one (1) or more of the following: 
(I) Written examination; (II) Oral examination; (III) Hands-on examination, which could involve observa- 
tion supplemented by appropriate queries. Observations can be made during: 
(a) Performance on the job; (b) On the job training; or (c) Simulations. 
C. Qualified means that an individual has been evaluated and can: 
(I) Perform assigned covered tasks; and 
(II) Recognize and react to abnormal operating conditions. 3. Qualification program. (192.805) Each operator shall have and follow a written qualification program. The program shall 
include provisions to: A. Identify covered tasks; 
B. Provide training, as appropriate, to ensure that indi- viduals performing covered tasks have the necessary knowledge and skills to perform the tasks in a manner that ensures the safe operation of pipeline facilities; 
[B.]C. Ensure through evaluation that individuals performing covered tasks are qualified and have the necessary knowledge and skills to perform the tasks in a manner that ensures the safe operation of pipeline facilities; 
[C.]D. Allow individuals that are not qualified pursuant to this subsection to perform a covered task if directed and observed by an individual that is qualified; 
[D.]E. Evaluate an individual if the operator has reason to believe that the individual’s performance of a covered task con- tributed to an incident meeting the Missouri reporting requirements in 4 CSR 240-40.020(4)(A); 
[E.]F. Evaluate an individual if the operator has reason to believe that the individual is no longer qualified to perform a covered task; 
[F.]G. Communicate changes, including changes to rules and procedures, that affect covered tasks to individuals performing those covered tasks and their supervisors, and incorporate those changes in subsequent evaluations; 
[G.]H. Identify the interval for each covered task at which evaluation of the individual’s qualifications is needed, with a maxi- mum interval of thirty-nine (39) months; 
[H.]I. Evaluate an individual’s possession of the knowledge and skills under paragraph (12)(D)4. at intervals not to exceed thir- ty-nine (39) months; 
[I.]J. Ensure that covered tasks are— (I) Performed by qualified individuals; or (II) Directed and observed by qualified individuals; and 
[J.]K. Submit each program change to designated commis- sion personnel as required by subsection (1)(J). 
4. Personnel to whom this subsection applies must possess the knowledge and skills necessary to— 
A. Follow the requirements of this rule that relate to the cov- ered tasks they perform; 
task; 
(I) Is performed on a pipeline facility; (II) Is an operations, maintenance, or emergency-response 
(III) Is performed as a requirement of this rule; and 
(IV) Affects the operation or integrity of the pipeline. 2. Definitions. (192.803) 
A. Abnormal operating condition means a condition identi- 
B. Carry out the procedures in the procedural manual for 

Page 1590 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
operations, maintenance, and emergencies established under subsec- tion (12)(C) (192.605) that relate to the covered tasks they perform; C. Utilize instruments and equipment that relate to the cov- ered task they perform in accordance with manufacturer’s instruc- 
tions; D. Know the characteristics and hazards of the gas transport- 
ed, including flammability range, odorant characteristics, and corro- sive properties; 
E. Recognize potential ignition sources; 
F. Recognize conditions that are likely to cause emergencies, including equipment or facility malfunctions or failure and gas leaks, predict potential consequences of these conditions, and take appro- priate corrective action; 
G. Take steps necessary to control any accidental release of gas and to minimize the potential for fire or explosion; and 
H. Know the proper use of firefighting procedures and equip- ment, fire suits, and breathing apparatus by utilizing, where feasible, a simulated pipeline emergency condition. 
5. Each operator shall continue to meet the training and annual review requirements regarding the operator’s emergency procedures in subparagraph (12)(J)2.B., in addition to the qualification program required in paragraph (12)(D)3. 
6. Each operator shall provide instruction to the supervisors or designated persons who will determine when an evaluation is neces- sary under subparagraph (12)(D)3.[E.]F. 
7. Each operator shall select appropriately knowledgeable indi- viduals to provide training and to perform evaluations. Where hands- on examinations and observations are used, the evaluator should pos- sess the required knowledge to ascertain an individual’s ability to perform covered tasks and react to abnormal operating conditions that might occur while performing those tasks. 
8. Record keeping. (192.807) Each operator shall maintain records that demonstrate compliance with this subsection. 
A. Qualification records shall include: (I) Identification of the qualified individual(s); (II) Identification of the covered tasks the individual is 
qualified to perform; (III) Date(s) of current qualification; and (IV) Qualification method(s). 
B. Records supporting an individual’s current qualification shall be maintained while the individual is performing the covered task. Records of prior qualification and records of individuals no longer performing covered tasks shall be retained for a period of five (5) years. 
9. General. (192.809) A. [Subsection (12)(D) for personnel qualification was 
promulgated in 1989, effective December 15, 1989. Operators were required to meet the training and testing requirements within eighteen (18) months following the effec- tive date, or June 15, 1991. At that time, there were no fed- eral requirements for personnel qualification.] Operators must have a written qualification program by April 27, 2001. The pro- gram must be available for review by designated commission per- sonnel. 
B. [Subpart N to 49 CFR 192 (Subpart N) was adopt- ed with federal regulations for qualification of pipeline per- sonnel, effective October 26, 1999. Subsection (12)(D) is being amended in 2000 to incorporate much of Subpart N, including all requirements in Subpart N that are more strin- gent than the original subsection (12)(D). However, subsec- tion (12)(D) as amended is different from and more stringent than Subpart N, primarily because training and testing is still required and work performance history review is not per- mitted as an evaluation method. Operators should continue to comply with the original subsection (12)(D) until the fol- lowing deadlines, which are from Subpart N.] Operators must complete the qualification of individuals performing covered tasks by October 28, 2002. 
[(I) Operators must have a written qualification pro- gram by April 27, 2001. The program and any program changes must be submitted to designated commission per- sonnel as required by subsection (1)(J). 
(II) Operators must complete the qualification of individuals performing covered tasks by October 28, 2002. 
(III) After December 16, 2004, observation of on- the-job performance may not be used as the sole method of evaluation.] 
C. After December 16, 2004, observation of on-the-job performance may not be used as the sole method of evaluation. 
(I) Damage Prevention Program. (192.614) 1. Except for pipelines listed in paragraphs (12)(I)6. and 7., 
each operator of a buried pipeline shall carry out in accordance with this subsection a written program to prevent damage to that pipeline by excavation activities. For the purpose of this subsection, excava- tion activities include excavation, blasting, boring, tunneling, back- filling, the removal of aboveground structures by either explosive or mechanical means, and other earthmoving operations. Particular attention should be given to excavation activities in close proximity to cast iron mains with remedial actions taken as required by subsec- tion (13)(Z). (192.755). 
2. An operator may perform any of the duties [required by] specified in paragraph (12)(I)3. through participation in a public ser- vice program, such as a one-call system, but such participation does not relieve the operator of responsibility for compliance with this subsection. However, an operator must perform the duties of sub- paragraph (12)(I)3.D. through participation in the qualified one-call system for Missouri. An operator’s pipeline system must be covered by the qualified one-call system for Missouri. 
3. The damage prevention program required by paragraph (12)(I)1. must, at a minimum— 
A. Include the identity, on a current basis, of persons who normally engage in excavation activities in the area in which the pipeline is located. A listing of persons involved in excavation activ- ities shall be maintained and updated at least once each calendar year with intervals not exceeding fifteen (15) months. If an operator chooses to participate in an excavator education program of a one- call notification center, as provided for in subparagraphs (12)(I)3.B. and C., then such updated listing shall be provided to the one-call notification center prior to December 1 of each calendar year. This list should at least include, but not be limited to, the following: 
(I) Excavators, contractors, construction companies, engi- neering firms, etc.—Identification of these should at least include a search of the phone book yellow pages, checking with the area and/or state office of the Associated General Contractors and checking with the operating engineers local union hall(s); 
(II) Telephone company; (III) Electric utilities and co-ops; (IV) Water and sewer utilities; (V) City governments; (VI) County governments; (VII) Special road districts; (VIII) Special water and sewer districts; and (IX) Highway department district(s); 
B. Provide for at least a semiannual general notification of the public in the vicinity of the pipeline. Provide for actual notification of the persons identified in subparagraph (12)(I)3.A., at least once each calendar year at intervals not exceeding fifteen (15) months by registered or certified mail, or notification through participation in an excavator education program of a one-call notification center meeting the requirements of subparagraph (12)(I)3.C. Mailings to excavators shall include a copy of the applicable sections of Chapter 319, RSMo, or a summary of the provisions of Chapter 319, RSMo, approved by designated commission personnel, concerning under- ground facility safety and damage prevention pertaining to excava- tors. The operator’s public notifications and excavator notifications shall include information concerning the existence and purpose of the 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1591 

operator’s damage prevention program, as well as information on how to learn the location of underground pipelines before excavation activities are begun; 
C. In order to provide for an operator’s compliance with the excavator notification requirements of subparagraph (12)(I)3.B., a one-call system’s excavator education program must— 
(I) Maintain and update a comprehensive listing of excava- tors who use the one-call notification center and who are identified by the operators pursuant to the requirements of subparagraph (12)(I)3.A.; 
(II) Provide for at least semiannual educational mailings to the excavators named on the comprehensive listing maintained pur- suant to part (12)(I)3.C.(I), by first class mail; and 
(III) Provide for inclusion of the following in at least one (1) of the semiannual mailings [required by] specified in part (12)(I)3.C.(II): Chapter 319, RSMo or a summary of the provisions of Chapter 319, RSMo, approved by designated commission person- nel, concerning underground facility safety and damage prevention which pertain to excavators; an explanation of the types of temporary markings normally used to identify the approximate location of underground facilities; and a description of the availability and prop- er use of the one-call system’s notification center; 
D. Provide a means of receiving and recording notification of planned excavation activities; 
E. Include maintenance of records for subparagraphs (12)(I)3.B.–D. as follows: 
(I) Copies of the two (2) most recent annual notifications sent to excavators identified in subparagraph (12)(I)3.A., or the four (4) most recent semiannual notifications sent in accordance with sub- paragraph (12)(I)3.C., must be retained; 
(II) Copies of notifications required in subparagraph (12)(I)3.D. shall be retained for at least two (2) years. At a mini- mum, these records should include the date and the time the request was received, the actions taken pursuant to the request, and the date the response actions were taken; and 
(III) Copies of notification records required by Chapter 319, RSMo, to be maintained by the notification center shall be available to the operator for at least five (5) years; 
F. If the operator has buried pipelines in the area of excava- tion activity, provide for actual notification of persons who give notice of their intent to excavate of the type of temporary marking to be provided and how to identify the markings; 
G. Provide for temporary marking of buried pipelines in the area of excavation activity before, as far as practical, the activity begins; and 
H. Provide as follows for inspection of pipelines that an oper- ator has reason to believe could be damaged by excavation activities: (I) The inspection must be done as frequently as necessary during and after the activities to verify the integrity of the pipeline; 
and 
(II) In the case of blasting, any inspection must include leakage surveys. 
4. Each notification identified in subparagraph (12)(I)3.D. should be evaluated to determine the need for and the extent of inspections. The following factors should be considered in determin- ing the need for and extent of those inspections: 
A. The type and duration of the excavation activity involved; B. The proximity to the operator’s facilities; C. The type of excavating equipment involved; D. The importance of the operator’s facilities; 
E. The type of area in which the excavation activity is being performed; 
F. The potential for serious incident should damage occur; G. The prior history of the excavator with the operator; and H. The potential for damage occurring which may not be eas- 
ily recognized by the excavator. 5. The operator should pay particular attention, during and after 
excavation activities, to the possibility of joint leaks and breaks due 
to settlement when excavation activities occur near cast iron and threaded-coupled steel. 
6. A damage prevention program under this subsection is not required for the following pipelines: 
A. Pipelines to which access is physically controlled by the operator; and 
B. Pipelines that are part of a petroleum gas system subject to subsection (1)(F) (192.11) or part of a distribution system operated by a person in connection with that person’s leasing of real property or by a condominium or cooperative association. 
7. Pipelines operated by persons other than municipalities (including operators of master meters) whose primary activity does not include the transportation of gas need not comply with the fol- lowing: 
A. The requirement of paragraph (12)(I)1. that the damage prevention program be written; and 
B. The requirements of paragraphs (12)(I)3.A., (12)(I)3.B., and (12)(I)3.C. 
(S) Providing Service to Customers. 1. At the time an operator physically turns on the flow of gas to 
a customer (see requirements in subsection (10)(J) for new fuel line installations)— 
A. Each segment of fuel line must be tested for leakage to at least the delivery pressure; and 
B. A visual inspection of the exposed, accessible customer gas piping, interior and exterior, and all connected equipment shall be conducted to determine that the requirements of any applicable industry codes, standards, or procedures adopted by the operator to assure safe service are met. This visual inspection need not be met for emergency outages or curtailments. In the event a large commer- cial or industrial customer denies an operator access to the cus- tomer’s premises, the operator does not need to comply with the above requirement if the operator obtains a signed statement from the customer stating that the customer will be responsible for inspecting its exposed, accessible gas piping, and all connected equipment, to determine that the piping and equipment meets any applicable codes, standards, or procedures adopted by the operator to assure safe ser- vice. In the event the customer denies an operator access to its premises and refuses to sign a statement as described above, the operator may file with the commission an application for waiver of compliance with this provision. 
2. When providing gas service to a new customer or a customer relocated from a different operating district, the operator must pro- vide the customer with the following as soon as possible, but within seven (7) calendar days, unless the operator can demonstrate that the information would be the same: 
A. Information on how to contact the operator in the event of an emergency or to report a gas odor; 
B. Information on how and when to contact the operator when excavation work is to be performed; and 
C. Information concerning the customer’s responsibility for maintaining his/her gas piping and utilization equipment. In addi- tion, the operator should determine if a customer notification is [required by] applicable per subsection (1)(K). 
3. The operator shall discontinue service to any customer whose fuel lines or gas utilization equipment are determined to be unsafe. The operator, however, may continue providing service to the cus- tomer if the unsafe conditions are removed or effectively eliminated. 
4. A record of the test and inspection performed in accordance with this subsection shall be maintained by the operator for a period of not less than two (2) years. 
(T) Control Room Management. (192.631) 1. General. 
A. This subsection applies to each operator of a pipeline facil- ity with a controller working in a control room who monitors and con- trols all or part of a pipeline facility through a SCADA system. Each operator must have and follow written control room management pro- cedures that implement the requirements of this subsection, except as 

Page 1592 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
follows. For each control room where an operator’s activities are lim- ited to either or both of distribution with less than two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) services or transmission without a compressor station, the operator must have and follow written procedures that implement only paragraphs (12)(T)4. (regarding fatigue), (12)(T)9. (regarding compliance validation), and (12)(T)10. (regarding com- pliance and deviations). 
B. The procedures required by this subsection must be inte- grated, as appropriate, with operating and emergency procedures required by subsections (12)(C) and (12)(J). An operator must devel- op the procedures no later than August 1, 2011, and must implement the procedures according to the following schedule. The procedures required by paragraph (12)(T)2.; subparagraphs (12)(T)3.E. and (12)(T)4.B. and C.; and paragraphs (12)(T)6. and (12)(T)7. must be implemented no later than October 1, 2011. The procedures required by subparagraphs (12)(T)3.A.–D. and (12)(T)4.A. and D.; and para- graph (12)(T)5. must be implemented no later than August 1, 2012. The training procedures required by paragraph (12)(T)8. must be implemented no later than August 1, 2012, except that any training required by another paragraph or subparagraph of this subsection must be implemented no later than the deadline for that paragraph or subparagraph. 
2. Roles and responsibilities. Each operator must define the roles and responsibilities of a controller during normal, abnormal, and emergency operating conditions. To provide for a controller’s prompt and appropriate response to operating conditions, an operator must define each of the following: 
A. A controller’s authority and responsibility to make deci- sions and take actions during normal operations; 
B. A controller’s role when an abnormal operating condition is detected, even if the controller is not the first to detect the condi- tion, including the controller’s responsibility to take specific actions and to communicate with others; 
C. A controller’s role during an emergency, even if the con- troller is not the first to detect the emergency, including the con- troller’s responsibility to take specific actions and to communicate with others; [and] 
D. A method of recording controller shift-changes and any hand-over of responsibility between controllers[.]; and 
E. The roles, responsibilities and qualifications of others with the authority to direct or supersede the specific technical actions of a controller. 
3. Provide adequate information. Each operator must provide its controllers with the information, tools, processes, and procedures necessary for the controllers to carry out the roles and responsibili- ties the operator has defined by performing each of the following: 
A. Implement sections 1, 4, 8, 9, 11.1, and 11.3 of API RP 1165 (incorporated by reference in 49 CFR 192.7 and adopted in (1)(D)) whenever a SCADA system is added, expanded, or replaced, unless the operator demonstrates that certain provisions of sections 1, 4, 8, 9, 11.1, and 11.3 of API RP 1165 are not practical for the SCADA system used; 
B. Conduct a point-to-point verification between SCADA dis- plays and related field equipment when field equipment is added or moved and when other changes that affect pipeline safety are made to field equipment or SCADA displays; 
C. Test and verify an internal communication plan to provide adequate means for manual operation of the pipeline safely, at least once each calendar year, but at intervals not to exceed fifteen (15) months; 
D. Test any backup SCADA systems at least once each calen- dar year, but at intervals not to exceed fifteen (15) months; and 
E. Establish and implement procedures for when a different controller assumes responsibility, including the content of informa- tion to be exchanged. 
4. Fatigue mitigation. Each operator must implement the fol- lowing methods to reduce the risk associated with controller fatigue that could inhibit a controller’s ability to carry out the roles and 
responsibilities the operator has defined: A. Establish shift lengths and schedule rotations that provide 
controllers off-duty time sufficient to achieve eight (8) hours of con- tinuous sleep; 
B. Educate controllers and supervisors in fatigue mitigation strategies and how off-duty activities contribute to fatigue; 
C. Train controllers and supervisors to recognize the effects of fatigue; and 
D. Establish a maximum limit on controller hours-of-service, which may provide for an emergency deviation from the maximum limit if necessary for the safe operation of a pipeline facility. 
5. Alarm management. Each operator using a SCADA system must have a written alarm management plan to provide for effective controller response to alarms. An operator’s plan must include pro- visions to: 
A. Review SCADA safety-related alarm operations using a process that ensures alarms are accurate and support safe pipeline operations; 
B. Identify at least once each calendar month points affecting safety that have been taken off scan in the SCADA host, have had alarms inhibited, generated false alarms, or that have had forced or manual values for periods of time exceeding that required for associ- ated maintenance or operating activities; 
C. Verify the correct safety-related alarm set-point values and alarm descriptions at least once each calendar year, but at intervals not to exceed fifteen (15) months; 
D. Review the alarm management plan required by this para- graph at least once each calendar year, but at intervals not exceeding fifteen (15) months, to determine the effectiveness of the plan; 
E. Monitor the content and volume of general activity being directed to and required of each controller at least once each calendar year, but at intervals not to exceed fifteen (15) months, that will assure controllers have sufficient time to analyze and react to incom- ing alarms; and 
F. Address deficiencies identified through the implementation of subparagraphs (12)(T)5.A.–E. 
6. Change management. Each operator must assure that changes that could affect control room operations are coordinated with the control room personnel by performing each of the following: 
A. Establish communications between control room repre- sentatives, operator’s management, and associated field personnel when planning and implementing physical changes to pipeline equip- ment or configuration; 
B. Require its field personnel to contact the control room when emergency conditions exist and when making field changes that affect control room operations; and 
C. Seek control room or control room management participa- tion in planning prior to implementation of significant pipeline hydraulic or configuration changes. 
7. Operating experience. Each operator must assure that lessons learned from its operating experience are incorporated, as appropri- ate, into its control room management procedures by performing each of the following: 
A. Review federal incidents that must be reported pursuant to 4 CSR 240-40.020 to determine if control room actions contributed to the event and, if so, correct, where necessary, deficiencies related to— 
(I) Controller fatigue; (II) Field equipment; (III) The operation of any relief device; (IV) Procedures; (V) SCADA system configuration; and (VI) SCADA system performance. 
B. Include lessons learned from the operator’s experience in the training program required by this subsection. 
8. Training. Each operator must establish a controller training program and review the training program content to identify potential improvements at least once each calendar year, but at intervals not to 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1593 

exceed fifteen (15) months. An operator’s program must provide for training each controller to carry out the roles and responsibilities defined by the operator. In addition, the training program must include the following elements: 
A. Responding to abnormal operating conditions likely to occur simultaneously or in sequence; 
B. Use of a computerized simulator or non-computerized (tabletop) method for training controllers to recognize abnormal operating conditions; 
C. Training controllers on their responsibilities for communi- cation under the operator’s emergency response procedures; 
D. Training that will provide a controller a working knowl- edge of the pipeline system, especially during the development of abnormal operating conditions; [and] 
E. For pipeline operating setups that are periodically, but infrequently used, providing an opportunity for controllers to review relevant procedures in advance of their application[.]; and 
F. Control room team training and exercises that include both controllers and other individuals, defined by the operator, who would reasonably be expected to operationally collaborate with controllers (control room personnel) during normal, abnor- mal, or emergency situations. Operators must comply with the team training requirements under this paragraph by no later than January 23, 2018. 
9. Compliance validation. Operators must submit their proce- dures to designated commission personnel [as required by] per subsection (1)(J). 
10. Compliance and deviations. An operator must maintain for review during inspection— 
A. Records that demonstrate compliance with the require- ments of this subsection; and 
B. Documentation to demonstrate that any deviation from the procedures required by this subsection was necessary for the safe operation of a pipeline facility. 
(13) Maintenance. (F) Record Keeping. (192.709) 
1. For transmission lines each operator shall keep records cov- ering each leak discovered, repair made, line break, leakage survey, line patrol, and inspection for as long as the segment of transmission line involved remains in service. (192.709) 
2. For feeder lines, mains, and service lines, each operator shall maintain— 
A. Records pertaining to each original leak report for not less than six (6) years; 
B. Records pertaining to each leak investigation and classifi- cation for not less than six (6) years. These records shall at least con- tain sufficient information to determine if proper assignment of the leak class was made, the promptness of actions taken, the address of the leak and the frequency of reevaluation and/or reclassification; 
C. Records pertaining to each leak repair for the life of the facility involved, except no record is required for repairs of above- ground Class 4 leaks. These records shall at least contain sufficient information to determine the promptness of actions taken, address of the leak, pipe condition at the leak site, leak classification at the time of repair, and other such information necessary for proper comple- tion of DOT annual Distribution and Transmission Line report forms (PHMSA F 7100.1-1 and PHMSA F 7100.2-1); and 
D. Records pertaining to leakage surveys and line patrols conducted over each segment of pipeline for not less than six (6) years. These records shall at least contain sufficient information to determine the frequency, scope, and results of the leakage survey or line patrol[; and]. 
[E. Records pertaining to leak tests or surveys con- ducted in accordance with paragraph (14)(B)7. for not less than two (2) years.] 
3. For yard lines and buried fuel lines, each operator shall main- tain records of notifications and leakage surveys required by subsec- 
tion (13)(M) for not less than six (6) years. (R) Pressure Limiting and Regulating Stations—Inspection and 
Testing. (192.739) 1. Each pressure limiting station, relief device (except rupture 
discs), and pressure regulating station and its equipment must be subjected at intervals not exceeding fifteen (15) months but at least once each calendar year to inspections and tests to determine that it is— 
A. In good mechanical condition; 
B. Adequate from the standpoint of capacity and reliability of operation for the service in which it is employed; 
C. Except as provided in paragraph (13)(R)2., set to control or relieve at the correct pressures that will prevent downstream pres- sures from exceeding the allowable pressures under subsections (4)(FF) and (12)(M)–(O); 
D. Properly installed and protected from dirt, liquids, and other conditions that might prevent proper operation; 
E. Properly protected from unauthorized operation of valves in accordance with paragraph (4)(EE)8.; 
F. Equipped to indicate regulator malfunctions in accordance with paragraphs (4)(EE)10. and 11. in a manner that is adequate from the standpoint of reliability of operation; and 
G. Equipped with adequate over-pressure protection in accor- dance with paragraph (4)(EE)9. 
2. For steel pipelines whose MAOP is determined under para- graph (12)(M)3., if the MAOP is sixty (60) psi (four hundred four- teen (414) kPa) gauge or more, the control or relief pressure limit is as follows: 
A. If the MAOP produces a hoop stress that is greater than seventy-two percent (72%) of SMYS, then the pressure limit is MAOP plus four percent (4%). 
B. If the MAOP produces a hoop stress that is unknown as a percentage of SMYS, then the pressure limit is a pressure that will prevent unsafe operation of the pipeline considering its operating and maintenance history and MAOP. 
3. For individual service lines directly connected to produc- tion, gathering, or transmission pipelines, requirements for inspecting and testing devices and equipment are provided in subsection (13)(BB). 
(Z) Protecting or Replacing Disturbed Cast Iron Pipelines. (192.755) When an operator has knowledge that the support for a segment of a buried cast iron pipeline is disturbed or that an excava- tion or erosion is nearby, the operator shall determine if more than half the pipe diameter lies within the area of affected soil. For the purposes of this subsection, “area of affected soil” [shall] refers to the area above a line drawn from the bottom of the excavation or ero- sion, at the side nearest the main, at a forty-five degree (45°) angle from the horizontal (a lesser angle should be used for sandy or loose soils, or a greater angle may be used for certain consolidated soils if the angle can be substantiated by the operator). If more than half the pipe diameter lies within the area of affected soil, the following mea- sures/precautions must be taken— 
1. That segment of the pipeline must be protected, as necessary, against damage during the disturbance by— 
A. Vibrations from heavy construction equipment, trains, trucks, buses, or blasting; 
B. Impact forces by vehicles; C. Earth movement; D. Water leaks or sewer failures that could remove or under- 
mine pipe support; E. Apparent future excavations near the pipeline; or F. Other foreseeable outside forces which may subject that 
segment of the pipeline to bending stress; 2. If eight inches (8") or less in nominal diameter, then as soon 
as feasible, this segment of cast iron pipeline, which shall include a minimum of ten feet (10') beyond the area of affected soil, must be replaced, except as noted in paragraph (13)(Z)4.; 
3. If greater than eight inches (8") in nominal diameter, then as 

Page 1594 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
soon as feasible, appropriate steps must be taken to provide perma- nent protection for the disturbed segment from damage that might result from external loads, including compliance with applicable requirements of subsection (7)(J) (192.319) and paragraph (7)(I)1. (192.317[a]); and 
4. Replacement of cast iron pipelines would not necessarily be required if— 
A. The support beneath the pipe is removed for a length less than ten (10) times the nominal pipe diameter not to exceed six feet (6'); 
B. For parallel excavations, the pipe lies within the area of affected soil for a length less than ten (10) times the nominal pipe diameter not to exceed six feet (6'); 
C. The excavation is made by the operator in the course of routine maintenance, such as leak repairs to the main or service line installation, where the exposed portion of the main does not exceed six feet (6'), and the backfill supporting the pipe is replaced and compacted by the operator; or 
D. Permanent or temporary shoring was adequately installed to protect the cast iron pipeline during excavation and backfilling. 
(BB) Pressure Regulating, Limiting, and Overpressure Protection—Individual Service Lines Directly Connected to Production, Gathering, or Transmission Pipelines. (192.740) 
1. This subsection applies, except as provided in paragraph (13)(BB)3., to any service line directly connected to a production, gathering, or transmission pipeline that is not operated as part of a distribution system. 
2. Each pressure regulating or limiting device, relief device (except rupture discs), automatic shutoff device, and associated equipment must be inspected and tested at least once every three (3) calendar years, not exceeding thirty-nine (39) months, to determine that it is: 
A. In good mechanical condition; 
B. Adequate from the standpoint of capacity and reliabil- ity of operation for the service in which it is employed; 
C. Set to control or relieve at the correct pressure consis- tent with the pressure limits of paragraph (4)(DD)2.; and to limit the pressure on the inlet of the service regulator to sixty (60) psi (414 kPa) gauge or less in case the upstream regulator fails to function properly; and 
D. Properly installed and protected from dirt, liquids, or other conditions that might prevent proper operation. 
3. This subsection does not apply to equipment installed on service lines that only serve engines that power irrigation pumps. 
(14) Gas Leaks. (C) Leak Classifications. The leak classifications in this subsec- 
tion apply to pipelines, and do not apply to fuel lines. The defini- tions for “pipeline,” “fuel line,” “reading,” “sustained reading,” “building,” “tunnel,” and “vault or manhole” are included in sub- section (1)(B). The definition for “reading” is the highest sustained reading when testing in a bar hole or opening without induced ven- tilation. Thus, the leak classification examples involving a gas read- ing do not apply to outside pipelines located aboveground. Even though the leak classifications do not apply to fuel lines, an operator must respond immediately to each notice of an inside leak or odor as required in paragraphs (12)(J)1., (14)(B)1., and (14)(B)2. In addi- tion, the requirements in paragraph (12)(S)3. apply to fuel lines that are determined to be unsafe. 
1. Class 1 leak is a gas leak which, due to its location and/or magnitude, constitutes an immediate hazard to a building and/or the general public. [It shall require immediate corrective action which shall provide for public safety and protect property] A Class 1 leak requires immediate corrective action. Examples of Class 1 leaks are: a gas fire, flash, or explosion; broken gas facilities such as contractor damage, main failures or blowing gas in a popu- lated area; an indication of gas present in a building emanating from operator-owned facilities; a gas reading equal to or above the lower 
explosive limit in a tunnel, sanitary sewer, or confined area; gas entering a building or in imminent danger of doing so; and any leak which, in the judgment of the supervisor at the scene, is regarded as immediately hazardous to the public and/or property. When venting at or near the leak is the immediate corrective action taken for Class 1 leaks where gas is detected entering a building, the leak may be reclassified to a Class 2 leak if the gas is no longer entering the building, nor is in imminent danger of doing so. However, the leak shall be rechecked daily and repaired within fifteen (15) days. Leaks of this nature, if not repaired within five (5) days, may need to be reported as a safety-related condition, as required in 4 CSR 240- 40.020(12) and (13). (191.23 and 191.25) 
2. Class 2 leak is a leak that does not constitute an immediate hazard to a building or to the general public, but is of a nature requir- ing action as soon as possible. The leak of this classification must be rechecked every fifteen (15) days, until repaired, to determine that no immediate hazard exists. A Class 2 leak may be properly reclassified to a lower leak classification within fifteen (15) days after the initial investigation. Class 2 leaks due to readings in sanitary sewers, tun- nels, or confined areas must be repaired or properly reclassified within fifteen (15) days after the initial investigation. All other Class 2 leaks must be eliminated within forty-five (45) days after the initial investigation, unless it is definitely included and scheduled in a reha- bilitation or replacement program to be completed within a period of one (1) year, in which case the leak must be rechecked every fifteen (15) days to determine that no immediate hazard exists. Examples of Class 2 leaks are: a leak from a transmission line discernible twen- ty-five feet (25') or more from the line and within one hundred feet (100') of a building; any reading outside a building at the foundation or within five feet (5') of the foundation; any reading greater than fifty percent (50%) gas-in-air located five to fifteen feet (5'–15') from a building; any reading below the lower explosive limit in a tun- nel, sanitary sewer, or confined area; any reading equal to or above the lower explosive limit in a vault, catch basin, or manhole other than a sanitary sewer; or any leak, other than a Class 1 leak, which in the judgment of the supervisor at the scene, is regarded as requir- ing Class 2 leak priority. 
3. Class 3 leak is a leak that does not constitute a hazard to property or to the general public but is of a nature requiring routine action. These leaks must be repaired within five (5) years and be rechecked twice per calendar year, not to exceed six and one-half (6 1/2) months, until repaired or the facility is replaced. Examples of Class 3 leaks are: any reading of fifty percent (50%) or less gas-in- air located between five and fifteen feet (5'–15') from a building; any reading located between fifteen and fifty feet (15'–50') from a build- ing, except those defined in Class 4; a reading less than the lower explosive limit in a vault, catch basin, or manhole other than a san- itary sewer; or any leak, other than a Class 1 or Class 2 which, in the judgment of the supervisor at the scene, is regarded as requiring Class 3 priority. 
4. Class 4 leak is a confined or localized leak which is com- pletely nonhazardous. No further action is [required] necessary. 
(15) Replacement Programs. (B) Replacement Programs—General Requirements. Each opera- 
tor shall establish written programs to implement the requirements of this section. The requirements of this section apply to pipelines as they existed on December 15, 1989. [These programs shall be filed with designated commission personnel in accordance with subsection (1)(J) by May 1, 1990.] 
(C) Replacement Program—Unprotected Steel Service Lines and Yard Lines. At a minimum, each investor-owned, municipal, or mas- ter meter operator shall establish instrument leak detection survey and replacement programs for unprotected operator-owned and customer-owned steel service lines and yard lines. The operator [shall] may choose from the following options, unless otherwise ordered by the commission[, and shall notify the commission by May 1, 1990, of which option or combination of options the 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1595 

operator will implement]: 1. Conduct annual instrument leak detection surveys on all 
unprotected steel service lines and yard lines and implement a replacement program where all unprotected steel service lines and yard lines will be replaced by May 1, 1994; 
2. Conduct annual instrument leak detection surveys on all unprotected steel service lines and unprotected steel yard lines. The operator shall compile a historical summary listing the cumulative number of unprotected steel service lines and yard lines installed, replaced, or repaired due to underground leakage and with active underground leaks in a defined area. Based on the results of the sum- mary, the operator shall initiate replacement, to be completed within eighteen (18) months, of all unprotected steel service lines and yard lines in a defined area once twenty-five percent (25%) or more meet the previously mentioned repair, replacement, and leakage condi- tions. At a minimum, ten percent (10%) of the customer-owned unprotected steel service lines in the system as of December 15, 1989, must be replaced annually. Beginning with calendar year 1994, a minimum of five percent (5%) of the unprotected steel yard lines, and operator-owned and installed unprotected steel service lines in the system as of December 15, 1989, must be replaced annually; and 
3. Conduct annual instrument leak detection surveys on all unprotected steel service lines and unprotected steel yard lines and implement a replacement program. The program must prioritize replacements based on the greatest potential for hazards. At a mini- mum, ten percent (10%) of the customer-owned unprotected steel service lines in the system as of December 15, 1989, must be replaced annually. Beginning with calendar year 1994, a minimum of five percent (5%) of the unprotected steel yard lines, and operator- owned and installed unprotected steel service lines in the system as of December 15, 1989, must be replaced annually. 
(17) Gas Distribution Pipeline Integrity Management (IM) (B) What Do the Regulations in this Section Cover? (192.1003) [This section prescribes minimum requirements for an IM program for any gas distribution pipeline covered under this rule. A gas distribution operator, other than a master meter operator, must follow the requirements in subsections (17)(C)–(G). A master meter operator of a gas distribution line must follow the requirements in subsection (17)(H). Information about IM programs is available at 
http://primis.phmsa.dot.gov/dimp.] 
1. General. Unless exempted in paragraph (17)(B)2., this section prescribes minimum requirements for an IM program for any gas distribution pipeline covered under this rule, including liquefied petroleum gas systems. A gas distribution operator, other than a master meter operator, must follow the require- ments in subsections (17)(C)–(G). A master meter operator must follow the requirements in subsection (17)(H). 
2. Exceptions. Section (17) does not apply to an individual service line directly connected to a transmission, gathering, or production pipeline. 
(C) What Must a Gas Distribution Operator (Other than a Master Meter Operator) Do to Implement this Section? ([191.1005] 192.1005) No later than August 2, 2011, a gas distribution operator must develop and implement an integrity management program that includes a written integrity management plan as specified in subsec- tion (17)(D). 
Appendix E to 4 CSR 240-40.030 Appendix E[M]—Table of Contents—Safety Standards— Transportation of Gas by Pipeline. 
4 CSR 240-40.030(1) General (L) Customer Notification, [Required by] Paragraph (12)(S)2. 
4 CSR 240-40.030(3) Pipe Design (K) Design of Copper Pipe for Repairs. (192.125) 
(L) Additional Design Requirements for Steel Pipe Using Alternative Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure. (192.112) 
4 CSR 240-40.030(5) Welding of Steel in Pipelines 
(B) General. [(192.223)] 
4 CSR 240-40.030(7) General Construction Requirements for Transmission Lines and Mains 
(O) Additional Construction Requirements for Steel Pipe Using Alternative Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure. (192.328). 
4 CSR 240-40.030(8) Customer Meters, Service Regulators, and Service Lines 
(Q) Manual Service Line Shut-Off Valve Installation (192.385) 
4 CSR 240-40.030(9) Requirements for Corrosion Control. (B) How Does this [Subsection] Section Apply to Converted 
Pipelines and Regulated Onshore Gathering Lines? (192.452) 
4 CSR 240-40.030(12) Operations 
(M) Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure—Steel or Plastic Pipelines. (192.619 and 192.620) 
4 CSR 240-40.030(13) Maintenance (BB) Pressure Regulating, Limiting, and Overpressure 
Protection—Individual Service Lines Directly Connected to Production, Gathering, or Transmission Pipelines. (192.740) 
4 CSR 240-40.030(17) Gas Distribution Pipeline Integrity Management (IM) 
(C) What Must a Gas Distribution Operator (Other than a Master Meter Operator) Do to Implement this Section? [(191.1005)] (192.1005) 
AUTHORITY: sections 386.250, 386.310, and 393.140, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed Feb. 23, 1968, effective March 14, 1968. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 4, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. GX-2018-0279. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for August 20, 2018 at 10:00 a.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this pro- posed amendment, and may be asked to respond to commission ques- tions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 

Page 1596 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 40—Gas Utilities and Gas Safety Standards 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 4 CSR 240-40.080 Drug and Alcohol Testing. The commission is 
amending sections (1) and (4). 
PURPOSE: This amendment modifies the rule to address any amend- ments of 49 CFR parts 40 and 199 promulgated between October 2015 and September 2017. 
(1) As set forth in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) dated October 1, [2015] 2017, 49 CFR parts 40 and 199 are incorporated by reference and made a part of this rule. This rule does not incor- porate any subsequent amendments to 49 CFR parts 40 and 199. The Code of Federal Regulations is published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001. The October 1, [2015] 2017 version of 49 CFR parts 40 and 199 is available at www.gpo.gov/fdsys/search/showcitation.action. 
(4) For purposes of this rule, the following substitutions should be made for certain references in the federal pipeline safety regulations adopted by reference in section (2) of this rule: 
(D) The references to the applicability exemptions for operators of master meter systems as defined in section “191.3 of this chapter” in 49 CFR 199.2 should refer to [“4 CSR 240-40.020(2)(F)”] “4 CSR 240-40.020(2)(G)” instead. 
AUTHORITY: sections 386.250, 386.310, and 393.140, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed Nov. 29, 1989, effective April 2, 1990. For inter- vening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 4, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Public Service Commission, Morris L. Woodruff, Secretary of the Commission, 200 Madison Street, PO Box 360, Jefferson City MO 65102-0360. To be considered, comments must be received at the commission’s offices on or before August 15, 2018, and should include a reference to Commission Case No. GX-2018-0279. Comments may also be sub- mitted via a filing using the commission’s electronic filing and infor- mation system at http://www.psc.mo.gov/efis.asp. A public hearing is scheduled for August 20, 2018 at 10:00 a.m., in Room 310 of the Governor Office Building, 200 Madison St., Jefferson City, Missouri. Interested persons may appear at this hearing to submit additional comments and/or testimony in support of or in opposition to this pro- posed amendment, and may be asked to respond to commission ques- tions. 
SPECIAL NEEDS: Any persons with special needs, as addressed by the Americans with Disabilities Act, should contact the Missouri Public Service Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing at one (1) of the following numbers: Consumer Services Hotline 1- 800-392-4211 or TDD Hotline 1-800-829-7541. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
10 CSR 20-4.010 Construction Grant and Loan Priority System. This rule set forth the system used by the commission to prioritize projects for the Environmental Protection Agency wastewater treat- ment construction grants program, the state matching grant program and the state construction grants program. This rule set forth state eligibility limitations for grants under the Environmental Protection Agency wastewater treatment construction grants program and the state matching grant program. This rule also set forth the methods used by the commission to develop and modify lists of grant projects eligible for funding under the Environmental Protection Agency wastewater treatment construction grants program and the state matching grant program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded. Section (1) Priority Point System will be deleted and the department will create Priority Point Criteria to be noticed annually for public comment and adopted by the Clean Water Commission. Proposed to move section (2) Priority Lists and Section (3) Modifications to 10 CSR 20-040 State Revolving Fund General Assistance Regulation. 
AUTHORITY: section 644.026, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Dec. 4, 1975, effective Dec. 14, 1975. For intervening history, please con- sult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, attn. Hannah Humphrey, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to fac@dnr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for the Clean Water Commission to be held at 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018 at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring/Roaring River Conference Rooms, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-4.030 Grants for Sewer Districts and Certain Small Municipal Sewer Systems. The department is amending the purpose of the rule; renumbering the sections within this rule; amending sub- section (1)(A) Grant Application Requirements; updating terminology in subsection (1)(A); adding “cost” to the preliminary engineering study in subsection (1)(D); modifying the language in subsection (1)(D) to replace latest census with most recent decennial census and adding an income survey overseen by a state or federal agency; includ- ing additional language under paragraphs (1)(D)5.–6. and renumber- ing this section; updating terminology under section (2); deleting the grant limitations and maximum grant amount under subsection (2)(B); 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1597 

removing duplicative language and updating terminology under sub- section (2)(C); removing grant amount and referencing the law in subsection (2)(C); including new language to clarify eligible costs for connecting unsewered areas in paragraph (2)(D)1., updating termi- nology and stating the drawings and specifications for the project and such services must have been procured with state law to be eligible costs in subsection (2)(D); removing that applicants cannot receive more than one grant period in any two- (2-) year period in subsection (2)(E) and renumbering this section; removing prior section (4) Approval and Payment of Grants Made and Amended Between March 4, 2007 and August 30, 2007, in its entirety; adding “Funds” to Approval and Payment of Grants in section (5), removing when the department notifies approval of the grant application in subsection (5)(A); updating terminology in subsection (5)(A), adding demon- stration by the applicant that funding for the total project costs has been secured in subsection (5)(A); removing how often payments can be requested in subsection (5)(C); replacing three (3) years with two (2) years when describing when the department will recover grant payments if not utilized and including applicants requesting an exten- sion in section (5) and renumbering this section; replacing twenty (20) years with thirty (30) years in section (6); removing design life of facilities in section (6); and clarifying how the grant funds to be reimbursed will be based if the facility is sold, in section (6). 
PURPOSE: The amendment removes language that is no longer applicable, clarifies current language, and eliminates duplicative and unnecessary regulatory requirements. The purpose is also being amended to reference current statutes. 
PURPOSE: This rule defines the department’s grant eligibility and a means of administering the state funds appropriated for rural com- munity and sewer district sanitary sewer collection systems by defin- ing rural communities and sewer districts pursuant to sections 640.600, 640.605, 640.615, and 640.620, RSMo. 
(1) Grant Application Requirements. (A) [As required by section 640.615, RSMo, t]The applicant 
must first apply with the agency or other financial source which is to furnish the primary financial assistance, and after the amount of that assistance has been determined, an application for a grant under this rule may be made to and processed by the department. [This requirement may be met by the submittal of a pre-application form and preliminary engineering report to the Missouri Water and Wastewater Review Committee (MWWRC).] 
[(B)] An application for a grant shall be submitted on forms pro- vided by the department[. The application shall be] and supported by the necessary documents and forms from other state and federal grant or lending agencies or private lending agencies to enable the department to establish eligibility for grant funds. 
[(C)](B) The project for which the grant application is submitted shall comply with appropriate state and local laws, rules, and ordi- nances. 
[(D)](C) The grant application packet shall contain the informa- tion identified below: 
1. The preliminary engineering cost study for the proposed pro- ject including, but not limited to, the following items: development and administration costs; land, structures, right-of-way costs; legal costs; engineering costs; interest costs; equipment costs, contingen- cies; other costs; total project costs; and other information as required in rule 10 CSR 20-8.110; 
2. Information required to determine the cost per contracted connection of the proposed project; 
3. The median household income of the residents in the district or community; as determined by the [latest] most recent decennial census or by an income survey overseen by a state or federal agency; [and] 
4. Information required to determine the ratio of contracted users to potential users[.]; 
5. The number of acres being protected for any source water 
protection project; and 6. Demonstration of recipient’s legal, institutional, manage- 
rial, and financial capability to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment works throughout recipient’s jurisdiction. 
(2) Eligibility Requirements. (A) Grants shall be limited to [rural communities, neighbor- 
hood improvement districts,] municipal sewer systems, certain public water supply districts or public sewer districts of less than ten thousand (10,000) population. 
(B) Grants awarded under this regulation can be used [to supple- ment other funding sources] to provide collection sewers to unsewered areas. [Grants for collection sewers are limited to one thousand four hundred dollars ($1,400) per new con- nection up to fifty percent (50%) of the eligible project costs. No grant will exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000).] 
(C) Grants awarded under this regulation can be used [by any community with less than ten thousand (10,000) popula- tion, public sewer district or public water district] to fund [up to fifty percent (50%) of the] costs [required] incurred to meet more stringent operating permit requirements when those increased permit requirements are attributable to changes in, or the implemen- tation of, the state water quality policies or state water quality stan- dards. 
(D) Grants will be the lesser of [one thousand four hundred dollars ($1,400)] the per connection [or] amount specified in 640.620, RSMo, or fifty percent (50%) of the eligible costs of the [upgrades (including the proportional share of the associated engineering)] improvements, or five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) [whichever is less]. 
[(D)](E) [Other than pre-approved financing costs, no more than fifty percent (50%) of total eligible costs will be reim- bursed through the grant.] Grants [shall] may be used for the fol- lowing costs: 
1. Construction [contracts] costs for the [construction] installation of new sewer collection lines, lift stations, and associ- ated facilities required to serve an unsewered area. House laterals are not eligible; 
2. Construction costs for the installation, rehabilitation, or upgrade of [publicly owned] a wastewater [systems. House lat- erals are not eligible] treatment facility as specified in subsec- tion (2)(C); 
[2.]3. Engineering [costs including] services and other ser- vices incurred in preparing the design[, planning and construc- tion phase engineering if the costs are supported by an engi- neering agreement pre-approved by the department; and] drawings and specifications for the project. Such services must have been procured in accordance with state law to be eligible costs. 
[3. One hundred percent (100%) of the reasonable costs of a grant anticipation loan will be eligible. Departmental approval must be obtained prior to securing the grant antic- ipation loan. Grant anticipation loan costs will be approved when they are needed for cash flow purposes for the period between grant award and the first grant payment from the department. The approved costs of grant anticipation notes will be in addition to the approved grant amount.] 
[(E) No applicant shall receive more than one (1) grant for a sewer collection project in any two (2)-year period.] 
[(4) Approval and Payment of Grants Made and Amended Between March 4, 2007 and August 30, 2007. 
(A) The applicant shall be notified by the department when the grant application has been approved. Grant award shall be made upon receipt and approval of bid documents and executed contract documents. 

Page 1598 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(B) Full payment of the grant amount shall be made at the time of the department’s receipt of the executed grant award or grant amendment. The following provisions shall apply: 
1. The grantee shall established a separate escrow account with a bank as defined in Chapter 409, section 409-1.102, RSMo; 
2. The full grant award amount, less any payments processed prior to the date of this rule, will be paid to the grantee for deposit into the grantee’s established escrow account; 
3. Grant funds in the escrow account may be used to pay up to fifty percent (50%) of the costs of construction, equipment and construction phase engineering as the costs are incurred. No funds will be withdrawn for the construc- tion of house laterals; and 
4. The grantee shall submit the bank statement of the escrow account monthly, within thirty (30) days of the end of the month. If the monthly statement indicates that funds were withdrawn, the grantee shall submit copies of the invoices to document the costs. 
(C) Any cost of work completed after submission of the statement of work completed form shall not be considered an eligible project cost. The grant amount will be reduced, if necessary, to reflect actual project costs as determined by the invoices submitted by the grantee. 
(D) The department will verify project completion after a final inspection by the department has been conducted. 
(E) An audit to verify expenditure of grant funds may be made by the department after the completion of each approved project. Any funds found not expended for the pur- poses listed in subsection (2)(D) of this regulation will be recovered.] 
[(5)](4) Approval and Payment of Grant [Made after August 30, 2007] Funds. 
(A) The [department shall notify the applicant when the grant application has been approved. G]grant award shall be made upon receipt and approval of bid documents, [and] executed contract documents, and demonstration by the applicant that funding for the total project costs has been secured. The depart- ment may elect to pay out the full grant amount at the time of grant award or to make payments to the grantee based on the cash flow cir- cumstances of the state funds. 
(B) If the department elects to make full payment of the grant amount, payment shall be made at the time of the department’s receipt of the executed grant award. The following provisions apply: 
1. The grantee shall establish a separate escrow account with a bank as defined in Chapter 409, section 409-1.102, RSMo; 
2. The full grant award amount will be paid to the grantee for deposit into the grantee’s established escrow account; 
3. Grant funds in the escrow account may be used to pay up to fifty percent (50%) of the costs of construction, equipment, and con- struction phase engineering as the costs are incurred. No funds will be withdrawn for construction costs of house laterals or for costs that have been declared ineligible by the department; 
4. The grantee will submit the bank statement of the escrow account monthly, within thirty (30) days of the end of the month. If the monthly statement indicates that funds were withdrawn, the grantee must submit copies of the invoices to document the costs; and 
5. The bank account may earn interest, however, all withdrawals from the account must be documented with eligible invoices. If the project costs are inadequate to withdraw all the funds in the account, the balance must be refunded to the department. 
(C) [If the department elects to make grant payments rather than fund the full grant, payments can be requested no more frequently than monthly.] The department will provide 
a payment request form for the grantee to use. The payment request must be supported by invoices that document the costs incurred. 
(D) [Any cost of work completed after submission of the statement of work completed form shall not be considered an eligible project cost.] The grant amount will be reduced, if necessary, to reflect actual project costs as determined by the invoic- es submitted by the grantee. 
(E) The department will verify project completion after the final inspection by the department has been conducted. 
(F) Any funds remaining in the escrow account [three (3)] two (2) years after the date of the initial grant payment will be recovered by the department. On grants that are paid incrementally by the department, no payments will be made after [three (3)] two (2) years from the initial grant award acceptance, unless an extension is granted by the department. 
(G) An audit to verify expenditure of grant funds may be made by the department [after the completion of each approved pro- ject]. Any funds found not expended for the purposes listed in sub- section (2)[(D)](E) of this regulation will be recovered. 
[(6)](5) If at any time [during the twenty (20)-year design life of the facility(ies)] within thirty (30) years after initiation of operations of the project, the wastewater treatment works funded under this rule, or any part thereof, is sold, either outright or on contract for deed, to other than a political subdivision of the state, the state shall receive reimbursement of the grant funds. The total amount of grant funds to be reimbursed shall be based on a [twenty (20)] thirty- (30-)[-] year straight-line depreciation based on the original costs of the facilities being sold and adjusted for the per- centage of grant funds originally disbursed to fund such facilities. Grant funds to be reimbursed shall become due and payable upon transfer of ownership of the facility(ies). 
AUTHORITY: section 640.600 and 640.615, RSMo [2000] 2016 Original rule filed Feb. 2, 1983, effective July 1, 1983. For interven- ing history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, attn. Hannah Humphrey, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to fac@dnr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for the Clean Water Commission to be held at 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018 at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring/Roaring River Conference Rooms, 1730, East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-4.040 Clean Water State Revolving Fund General Assistance Regulation. The department is removing rescinded fed- eral requirement and incorporating CFR and census source in section 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1599 

(1); removing definitions found in CFR; adding, amending, or edit- ing other definitions as necessary in section (2); revising application timeline and removing language for rescinded federal requirements in section (3); removing rescinded federal requirement, adding new fed- eral requirement, establishing Target Interest Rate policy, and remov- ing policy details in section (4); changing loan fee to match approved rate and clarifying loan fee uses in section (5); amending for clarifi- cation and adding additional fee for late repayment in section (6); amending several references, removing obsolete federal requirement, and adding new federal requirements or policies in section (7); amending reference, removing superseded federal guidance, and adding new federal requirement in section (9); amending based on current federal policy and amending financial assistance descriptions in section (10); amending to reflect current accounting method required by federal government in section (11); amending reference in section (12); adding engineering procurement exemption for design build projects in section (13); removing outdated federal requirement, and clarifying meeting requirements in section (14); deleting section (15) and renumbering sections (16) through (25); removing a redundant sentence, and clarifying sentence on require- ment for satellite system in section (16); citing appropriate regula- tions and regulatory limits, removing verbatim language found in federal regulations, removing obsolete requirement, and adding new requirement in section (17); amending for clarification, adding new requirements, and updating regulatory limits in section (18); amend- ing regulation citation, removing verbatim federal language, group- ing appropriate items together, and updating language to new regula- tions in section (21); citing statute in section (23); adding regulation for cost recovery on property sale in section (25); adding new state regulation requirement for design-build in section (26); adding new regulation to allow loans for reports not covered under chapter 8 design in section (27); adding fiscal sustainability regulation for fed- eral requirement in section (28); and adding regulation to incorporate language rescinded from 10 CSR 20-4.010 in section (29). 
PURPOSE: The amendment revises the rule purpose, and removes regulations that are no longer applicable, clarifies current rule lan- guage, and eliminates duplicative and unnecessary regulatory requirements. 
PURPOSE: This rule sets forth requirements for the implementation of Title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended [in 1987], which authorizes the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to make capitalization grants to states for financ- ing the Clean Water State Revolving Fund Program[s]. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: The secretary of state has determined that the publication of the entire text of the material which is incorporated by reference as a portion of this rule would be unduly cumbersome or expensive. This material as incorporated by reference in this rule shall be maintained by the agency at its headquarters and shall be made available to the public for inspection and copying at no more than the actual cost of reproduction. This note applies only to the ref- erence material. The entire text of the rule is printed here. 
(1) Applicability. This rule defines the minimum requirements which apply to all recipients of assistance under the Clean Water State Revolving Fund [(SRF)] Program. Recipients of assistance are sub- ject to the requirements of this regulation, unless otherwise spec- ified. The recipient must satisfy more stringent requirements, if required to do so by applicable federal laws, regulations, or guidance and state or local statutes, policies, rules, ordinances, [or] orders, or loan documentation. [Recipients of assistance under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 are sub- ject to the requirements of this regulation, unless otherwise specified.] The Code of Federal Regulations referenced in the regulation are incorporated as published July 1, 2017. The regu- lations are incorporated by reference without any later amend- 
ments or modifications. To obtain a copy, contact the U.S. Government Printing Office at 732 North Capitol Street, NW, Washington D.C., 20401, toll free at (866) 512-1800 or by visiting https://bookstore.gpo.gov. To obtain the decennial median house- hold income visit the U.S. Census Bureau American Fact Finder webpage https://factfinder.census.gov/faces/nav/jsf/pages/com- munity_facts.xhtml, contact the U.S. Census Bureau, 4600 Silver Hill Road, Suitland, MD 20746, or toll free at (800) 923-8282. 
(2) Definitions. The definitions of terms for 10 CSR 20-4.040–10 CSR 20-4.050 are contained in 10 CSR 20-2.010 and subsections (2)(A)–[(S)](N) of this rule. 
[(A) ARRA—American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (P.L. 111-5). 
(B) BPWTT—Best practicable waste treatment technology. 
(C) Collection sewers—Sewers having the primary purpose of collecting wastewater from individual properties. 
(D) Combined sewers—Sewers constructed to carry both storm water and sanitary sewage.] 
(A) Assistance—The types of financial assistance allowed pur- suant to 33 U.S.C. 1383(d)(1)-(5). 
(B) Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF)—The finan- cial assistance program authorized by Title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. 
[(E)](C) Debt service—The costs associated with amortizing loans. These costs include interest charges, penalty charges, and repayment of principal. 
[(F) Director of staff—The director of staff of the Missouri Clean Water Commission.] 
[(G)](D) EIERA—State Environmental Improvement and Energy Resources Authority. 
[(H)](E) Infiltration/inflow (I/I)—Groundwater or storm water which enters a sanitary sewer system. 
[(I)](F) Initiation of operation—The date when the first [con- struction contract is completed and the] constructed compo- nent is capable of being used for its intended purpose. 
[(J) Innovative technology—Developed wastewater treat- ment processes and techniques which have not been fully proven under the circumstances of their contemplated use and which represent a significant advancement over the state of the art in terms of significant reduction in life cycle cost or significant environmental benefits through the reclaiming and reuse of water, otherwise eliminating the dis- charge of pollutants, utilizing recycling techniques, such as land treatment, more efficient use of energy and resources, improved or new methods of waste treatment management for combined municipal and industrial systems, or the con- fined disposal of pollutants so that they will not migrate to cause water or other environmental pollution.] 
[(K)](G) Intended Use Plan—A planning document, prepared by the Department of Natural Resources, that identifies the intended uses of available funds. 
[(L) Interceptor sewers—Sewers having the primary pur- pose of transporting wastewater from collection sewers to a wastewater treatment facility.] 
(H) Loan—Unless stated otherwise, loan generally refers to the agreement to lend money to an eligible recipient. The type of agreement could be a loan agreement, bond purchase agreement, or other debt instrument. 
[(M)](I) Readiness to proceed—The submittal, by the applicant, of a complete engineering report/facility plan and documentation that the applicant has an acceptable debt instrument including any neces- sary funding commitments from other state and/or federal agencies. A detailed plan may be substituted for a facility plan for requests of planning financial assistance. 
[(N)](J) Recipient—The recipient of financial assistance from programs supported or secured by the Water and Wastewater Loan Fund (WWLF), the Water and Wastewater Loan Revolving [Loan] 

Page 1600 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Fund [(WWRLF)] (WWLRF), CWSRF bonds issued by EIERA, or state bond funds. 
[(O)](K) Staff—Staff of the Missouri Department of Natural Resources. 
[(P) State Revolving Fund (SRF)—The financial assistance program authorized by Title VI of the Federal Clean Water Act. In Missouri the State Revolving Fund consists of the WWLF, the WWRLF, and those accounts secured by funds from the WWLF and the WWRLF. The State Revolving Fund is subject to the requirements, restrictions, and eligibilities placed on the State Revolving Fund by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. 
(Q) Subagreements—Agreements and contracts entered into by recipients.] 
(L) Treatment works—Refer to the definition in Section 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. 
[(R)](M) WWLF—Water and Wastewater Loan Fund. State fund established by the state treasurer pursuant to section 644.122, RSMo. 
[(S)](N) [WWRLF] WWLRF—Water and Wastewater Loan Revolving [Loan] Fund. State fund under the WWLF into which repayments are held by the state treasurer and from which new loans may be made. 
(3) Project Selection Process. This section delineates the process by which the commission selects projects for receipt of CWSRF assis- tance. 
(A) The commission shall hold an annual competition for receipt of CWSRF assistance. This competition will be structured as fol- lows: 
[1. Applicants— A. SRF applicants must submit an application as 
described in section (8) of this rule that must be postmarked or received by the department on or before November 15 prior to the fiscal year for which SRF assistance is being sought. Electronically transmitted applications shall not be accepted. Unsuccessful applicants requesting funds during a given fiscal year shall be considered for funding the next fis- cal year and need not reapply. The department may extend this deadline if sufficient applications are not received to use all of the funds expected to be available. Applications received after the deadline may be placed on a project list as determined by the Clean Water Commission (CWC). The pro- jects may subsequently be considered for funding by the CWC if the project is ready to proceed during the fiscal year the project appears in the Intended Use Plan (IUP); 
B. ARRA applicants must submit an application as described in section (8) of this rule. Applications will be accepted upon announcement by DNR and must meet pro- gram guidance and federal law or regulations as appropriate and applicable;] 
1. Applications postmarked or received by the Water Protection Program by the calendar date established in the annu- al application package will be considered for competitive place- ment on the annual Intended Use Plan. The deadline will be no sooner than sixty (60) days after the application package is made available. Applications are valid for two (2) annual Intended Use Plan cycles. Applications received after the deadline may be placed on a priority list as determined by the commission based on availability of funds; 
2. Applicants that have an outstanding [SRF] loan balance with the department must be in compliance with the terms and condi- tions of their [loan] assistance agreements to be eligible for addi- tional funding; 
3. All qualified applications will be rated and placed on the appropriate list in accordance with 10 CSR 20-4.[010]040(29)(B) [and, in addition, applicants seeking ARRA funding shall also be rated in accordance with the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009 and corresponding federal guid- ance]; 
4. The commission will select the [highest rated] projects with the highest priority points, meeting readiness to proceed cri- teria, for CWSRF assistance from CWSRF funds anticipated to be available during the upcoming fiscal year; and 
[5. The commission may hold a separate competition for projects requesting loans with a term of less than three (3) years; and] 
[6.]5. The commission may hold a separate competition for projects seeking funding whenever [appropriate and] allowed by federal law and in the event supplemental funds are provided. 
(B) The commission may direct projects toward specific financial assistance programs contained in 10 CSR 20-4. The commission’s decisions shall be based upon the amount of financial assistance funds available, the amount of financial assistance funds requested, the size of the project, the credit worthiness of the applicant, and the applicant’s authority to incur long-term debt. 
(4) Target Interest Rate (TIR). The TIR policy shall be established by the Missouri Clean Water Commission in consultation with the department and the EIERA based upon current economic factors, projected fund utilization, deposits in the [Wastewater Revolving Loan Fund] WWLRF, and actual or anticipated federal capitaliza- tion grants, and be published in the annual Intended Use Plan. [The department will use the Twenty-Five Bond Revenue Index as published in The Bond Buyer (or any successor pub- lication) as the basis for determining the TIR.] The department reserves the right to refinance, assign, pledge, or leverage any loans originated under this [subsection] rule. 
[(A) The TIR for all assistance provided under 10 CSR 20- 4.041, Direct Loan Program, shall not be less than thirty per- cent (30%) of the weekly Twenty-Five Bond Revenue Index as published in The Bond Buyer (or any successor publica- tion) the week preceding funding, rounded up to the nearest one-hundredth (0.01) of one percent (1%). The commission may reduce the interest rate to meet the needs of the appli- cant. In order to reduce the interest rate, the commission must determine that unique or unusual circumstances exist. In addition, the commission may reduce the interest rate for projects impacting enterprise zones as authorized under state law. 
(B) The TIR for all assistance provided under 10 CSR 20- 4.042, Leveraged Loan Program, shall not be less than thirty percent (30%) of the weekly Twenty-Five Bond Revenue Index as published in The Bond Buyer (or any successor pub- lication) the week preceding funding, rounded up to the nearest one-hundredth (0.01) of one percent (1%). The Clean Water Commission (CWC) shall not undertake project- by-project revisions.] 
[(C)](A) A disadvantaged community may receive a [further] reduction in the TIR as determined by the [CWC] commission. A disadvantaged community is defined, for the purpose of reducing the TIR, as an applicant that— 
1. Has a population of three thousand three hundred (3,300) or less based on the most recent decennial census; 
2. Has a median household income at or below seventy-five per- cent (75%) of the state average median household income as deter- mined by the most recent decennial census or by an income survey overseen by a state or federal agency; and 
3. Has an average wastewater user charge for five thousand (5,000) gallons that is at least two percent (2%) of the median house- hold income of the applicant, determined by the decennial census or income survey listed in (4)(A)2. 
[(D) For projects funded by the ARRA, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended, or any subsequent federal act, additional subsidization (such as principal forgiveness, negative interest loans, grants, or the like) may be provided 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1601 

as federal law requires or allows.] 
(B) Additional Subsidization. Additional subsidization (such as principal forgiveness, negative interest loans, grants, or the like) may be provided as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended, or any subsequent federal act, requires or allows. 
(C) In accordance with section 603(d)(1)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the term of the assistance agree- ment shall be established per the provisions in 10 CSR 20- 4.041(8)(A). 
(5) Loan Fees. The department may charge annual loan administra- tive fees not to exceed one-half percent [(1%)] (0.5%) of the out- standing loan balance of each loan [provided from the WWLF or the WWRLF, except as provided under section (6). These fees shall be used in accordance with federal SRF program guidance.] for loan origination, loan servicing and administra- tion of the program. Other loan expenses including, but not lim- ited to, cost of issuance, debt service reserve and expenses charged by the paying agent will be paid by the recipient. 
(6) Additional Administrative Fees Allowed. Additional administra- tive fees may be assessed by the department at the time the adminis- tration fee is calculated for failure by a recipient to pay debt service on the loan or submit approved documents to the department (for example, operation and maintenance manuals, enacted user charge and sewer use ordinances, executed contract documents) in accor- dance with the time frames provided under the program agreement entered into by the recipient. The additional fee will be an additional one-tenth percent (0.1%) per month that the [document] recipient remains delinquent. The additional fee for delinquent documents will be collected only during the year in which the document is not submitted. 
(7) General CWSRF Assistance Requirements. The commission will prioritize potential CWSRF projects by assigning priority points in accordance with [10 CSR 20-4.010] the CWSRF Priority Point Criteria established per subsection (29)(A) of this rule. 
(A) Municipalities, counties, public sewer or water districts, or both, political subdivisions or instrumentalities of the state, and com- binations of the same, or any entity eligible pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended, are eligible for CWSRF assistance. The recipient must demonstrate its legal, institutional, managerial, and financial capability to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment works throughout the recip- ient’s jurisdiction. 
[(B) Ownership of facilities, equipment, and real property purchased under the program with a current value in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000) may be transferred only with written permission of the department. Transfer of own- ership to entities not listed in subsection (7)(A) of this rule will require immediate repayment of assistance. 
(C) Assistance under this rule cannot be used for portions of a project receiving a federal construction grant under Title II of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.] 
[(D)](B) Financial Disclosure. [Loan a]Applicants shall provide upon request to the department and the EIERA any detailed financial information [about the loan applicant] as may be required by the commission, the department, the EIERA, or its financial or legal consultants to determine the applicant’s eligibility for the [leveraged loan program] financial assistance. 
[(E)](C) For equivalency projects, the recipient and its contractors must comply with all requirements associated with funds provided under [the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. Equivalency projects will be so designated in the annual Intended Use Plan developed in accordance with this rule] 40 CFR 35.3135. 
[(F)](D) If the department determines that an applicant is in sig- nificant noncompliance with a valid National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or Missouri State Operating 
Permit, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended, the Missouri Clean Water Law as amended, or implementing regula- tions, then the department may refuse to provide financial assistance to such applicant, or require the applicant to reach a binding agree- ment regarding corrective actions the applicant will take to address such noncompliance. 
(E) All recipients are encouraged to retain the services of a financial advisor who is registered with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission. 
(F) American Iron and Steel. Recipients will need to keep sup- porting documentation to show that iron and steel products used comply with the requirements of 33 U.S.C. 1388 and subsection (17)(N) of this rule unless a waiver has been received. 
(9) Facility Planning. All facility plans must be in accordance with 
[accepted engineering practices and the current Waste Treatment Design Guide] 10 CSR 20-8.110. 
(A) Requirements for all projects are as follows: 1. The most reasonable environmentally sound and imple- 
mentable waste management alternatives must be studied and evalu- ated. Proposed waste treatment management plans and practices shall provide for the most cost effective technology that can treat waste- water and I/I to meet the current 10 CSR 20-7.015 Effluent Regulations, and 10 CSR 20-7.031 Water Quality Standards[. The requirement for cost-effectiveness may be waived by the department for projects upon showing that the project pro- vides environmentally preferable benefits, for example sludge utilization, water reuse, or reduction]; 
2. An estimate of the average user charge including documenta- tion for the basis of the estimate; and 
3. An assessment of the environmental conditions and impact of the proposed project on the environment is required. The environ- mental review process and associated public notice requirements are contained in 10 CSR 20-4.050. Additional public participation requirements are outlined in subsections (14)(A) and (B)[;]. 
[(B) Applicants that do not propose to employ a full time operator, forty (40) hours per week, must evaluate passive or easy to operate treatment alternatives before considering a mechanical activated sludge package plant. Passive or easy to operate alternatives may include, but are not limited to, enhanced natural systems, submerged fixed film sys- tems, sand filters, and recirculating pea gravel filters. 
(C) Projects over five (5) million dollars are encouraged to provide a multi-disciplined engineering review of plans and specifications. 
(D) Projects are encouraged to utilize energy and water conservation technologies.] 
(B) Recipients meeting the definition of municipality or inter- municipal, interstate or state agency shall provide a certification with the facility plan that it complies with cost and effectiveness requirements found in Section 602(b)(13) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. 
(10) Additional Preclosing Requirements. (A) Submittal Deadline. All documents necessary to provide assis- 
tance must be submitted to the department in sufficient time, as agreed upon in the project schedule, to allow adequate time for review and [must be approved sixty (60) days] approval prior to the [pool] loan closing date established by the department. [The commission has the authority to extend deadlines if justi- fied.] 
(B) Final Document Submittal. Documents listed in paragraphs (10)(B)1.–[8.]9. must be submitted and [approved] accepted by the department: 
1. Resolution identifying the authorized representative by name. Applicants [for assistance under the SRF] shall provide a resolu- tion by the governing body designating a representative authorized to file the application for assistance, reimbursement requests, and act in 

Page 1602 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
behalf of the applicant in all matters related to the project; 2. Plans and specifications certified by a registered professional 
engineer licensed in Missouri; 3. [Draft] If engineering services are to be reimbursed, an 
engineering contract as described in section (12) and the appropri- ate procurement documentation as described in section (13); 
4. If applicable, the design-build contract per section (26) and the appropriate procurement documentation; 
[4.]5. [Draft] Adopted user charge ordinance as described in section [(17)] (16); 
[5.]6. [Draft] Enacted sewer use ordinance as described in section [(17)] (16); 
[6.]7. Proposed project schedule. The following represents the minimum requirements for the project schedule: 
A. Construction start defined as date of issuance of notice to proceed; 
B. Construction completion; C. Initiation of operation; and D. Project completion; 
[7.]8. Certification of easements and real property acquisition. Recipients of assistance under the CWSRF shall have obtained title or option to the property or easements or condemnation proceedings initiated for the project prior to award of [a loan] financial assis- tance; and 
[8.]9. Other information or documentation deemed necessary by [the applicant or] the department to ensure the proper expendi- ture of state funds. 
(11) Accounting and Audits. [Applicants] Recipients are required to have a dedicated source for repayment of any loans and an ade- quate financial management system and audit procedure for the pro- ject which provides efficient and effective accountability and control of all property, funds, and assets related to the project. The [appli- cant’s] recipient’s financial system is subject to state or federal audits to assure fiscal integrity of public funds. 
(A) Each recipient is expected to have an adequate accounting sys- tem for the project which provides efficient and effective account- ability and control of all property, funds, and assets. 
1. The recipient is responsible for maintaining a financial man- agement system which will adequately provide for an accurate, cur- rent, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each loan project. The proprietary fund (business-related fund) accounting will be in accordance with generally accepted government accounting principles and practices, regardless of the source of funds. 
2. An acceptable accounting system includes books and records showing all financial transactions related to the construction project. The system must document all receipt and disbursement transac- tions[. It also must], and group them by type of account (for exam- ple, asset, revenue, expense, etc.) and by individual expense account (for example, personnel salaries and wages, subcontract costs, etc.). 
[A.]3. The recipient shall maintain books, records, documents, and other evidence and accounting procedures and practices, suffi- cient to reflect properly the amount, receipt, and disposition by the recipient for all assistance received for the project and the total costs of the project of whatever nature incurred for the performance of the project for which the assistance was awarded. [Some of the mini- mum standards for an adequate accounting system are—] 
[(I) The accounting system should be on a double entry basis with a general ledger in which all transactions are recorded in detail or in summary from subordinate accounts; 
(II) Recording of transactions pertaining to the con- struction project should be all inclusive, timely, verifiable, and supported by documentation; 
(III) The system must disclose the receipt and use of all funds received in support of the project; 
(IV) Responsibility for all project funds must be placed with either a project manager or trust agent; 
(V) Responsibility for accounting and control must be segregated from project operations. The accounting sys- tem and related procedures should be documented for con- sistent application; 
(VI) The proprietary fund must use the modified accrual or accrual basis of accounting as it provides an effective measure of costs and expenditures; 
(VII) Inventories of property and equipment should be maintained in subordinate records controlled by the gen- eral ledger and should be verified by physical inventory at least biennially; 
(VIII) The accounting system must identify all pro- ject costs and differentiate between eligible and ineligible costs; 
(IX) Accounts should be set up in a way to identify each organizational unit, function, or task providing services to the construction project; 
(X) An important project management objective of the system is the derivation of information regarding actual versus budgeted costs by project task and performing orga- nization; and 
(XI) Financial reports should be prepared monthly to provide project managers with a timely, accurate status of the construction project and costs incurred.] 
(B) Annual Audit[s]ed Financial Statements. 1. The recipient shall [request] cause an audit of the [system] 
recipient’s annual financial report for the preceding fiscal year to be made by a certified public accountant or firm of certified public accountants employed for that purpose. 
A. The annual audit will cover in reasonable detail the oper- ation of the proprietary system during the fiscal year. 
B. Within one hundred eighty (180) days after the end of the recipient’s fiscal year, a copy of the annual financial report will be submitted to the department as long as the recipient is in loan repayment status. A recipient who cannot meet this deadline will notify the department in writing of the delay with the expected date of completion. 
[C. Annual audits shall be required as long as the recipient is in loan repayment status. 
2. As required by federal law, the recipient must comply with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 governing the audit of state and local governments. 
A. OMB Circular A-133 states if the recipient receives five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) or more in the aggregate during any fiscal year from disbursements from federal sources, including the SRF program, the recipient will complete an audit of its system records for the fiscal year. 
B. A copy of the recipient’s annual audit, including all written comments and recommendations of the accountant, will be furnished to the department within the time period as provided in OMB Circular A-133.] 
2. As required by federal law, a recipient must comply with the provisions of OMB’s Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, as amended, governing the audit of state and local governments. When applicable, a copy of this audit, including all written com- ments and recommendations of the accountant, will be furnished to the department within the time period as provided in OMB’s Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards. 
(12) Architectural or Engineering Contracts. The following repre- sents the minimum requirements for the architectural or engineering contracts: 
(A) General Requirements for [Subagreements] Contracts. 1. Be necessary for and directly related to the accomplishment 
of the project work. 2. Be a lump sum or cost plus fixed fee contract in the form of 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1603 

a bilaterally executed written agreement. 3. Be for monetary consideration. 4. Not be in the nature of a grant or gift. 5. State a time frame for performance. 6. State a cost which cannot be exceeded except by amendment. 7. State provisions for payment; and 
(B) The nature, scope, and extent of work to be performed during construction should include, but not be limited to, the following: 
1. Preparing an operation and maintenance manual if required by the department and as defined in subsection [(23)](22)(A); 
2. Assisting the recipient in bid letting; 
3. Assisting the recipient [subdivision] in reviewing and ana- lyzing construction bids and making recommendations for award; and 
4. Inspecting during construction to ensure conformance with the construction contract documents unless waived by the depart- ment. 
(C) Executed Engineering Contract Submittal. The final approved executed engineering contract must be submitted prior to the first reimbursement request. 
(13) Procurement of Engineering Services. The procurement of engi- neering services shall be in accordance with sections 8.285 through 8.291, RSMo, unless such engineering services are performed as part of a design-build contract pursuant to section (26). 
(14) Public Participation. [The public must be allowed an opportunity to exchange ideas with the applicant during pro- ject development.] Public participation must be preceded by timely distribution of information and [must] occurs sufficiently in advance of decision making to allow the recipient to assimilate public views into action. [At a minimum, the recipient must provide the opportunities for p]Public participation [described in] shall include the following: 
[(A) A public meeting shall be conducted to discuss the alternative engineering solutions.] 
[(B)](A) Prior to approval of the draft user charge ordinance, a public hearing, in accordance with section 250.233, RSMo, shall be conducted to specifically address the proposed user charge rates. 
(B) Public notice of the hearing shall be published at least thirty (30) days prior to the meeting date. Public hearing notices shall include the date, time and place of the hearing. The notice may be for multiple hearings and should include a separate starting time for each hearing. The recipient shall prepare a transcript, recording, or other complete record of the proceeding and submit it to the department and make it available at no more than cost to any- one who requests it. A copy of the record should be available for public review; and 
(C) Public participation requirements for environmental review are contained in 10 CSR 20-4.050[(2)](4)(B)2. 
[(15) Design. Design of the project will be in conformance with accepted engineering practices and the current Waste Treatment Design Guide, 10 CSR 20-8. A preliminary design submittal, including the design criteria and facilities layout sheet, may be required at approximately the twenty percent (20%) design stage.] 
[(16)](15) Intermunicipal Agreements. Prior to closing, if the pro- ject serves two (2) or more public entities, the applicant shall submit executed agreements or contracts between the public entities for the financing, construction and operation of the proposed treatment facil- ities. At a minimum, the agreement or contract will include: 
(A) The operation and maintenance responsibilities of each party upon which the costs are allocated; 
(B) The formula by which the costs are allocated; (C) The manner in which the costs are allocated; (D) The term of the agreement, which shall be, at a minimum, for 
the term of the loan; (E) The method for resolution or arbitration of disputes; (F) The procedure for amending or renegotiating the agreement; (G) The enforcement authority; and (H) The effective date of the agreement. 
[(17)](16) User Charge and Sewer[-] Use Ordinance. Recipients are required to maintain, for the useful life of the treatment works, user charge, and sewer[-] use ordinances approved by the department. User charge, and sewer[-] use ordinances, at a minimum, shall be adopted prior to financing and implemented by the initiation of oper- ation of the financed wastewater treatment works. [A copy of the enacted ordinance must be submitted prior to initiation of operation.] 
(A) The user charge system must be designed to produce adequate revenues required for the operation and maintenance, including a reserve for equipment replacement. A one hundred ten percent (110%) debt service reserve may be required. The sewer user rate for operation and maintenance, including replacement, shall be propor- tional and based upon actual use. Each user charge system must include an adequate financial management system that will accurately account for revenues generated by the system, debt service, and loan fee costs and expenditures for operation and maintenance, including replacement based on an adequate budget identifying the basis for determining the annual operation and maintenance costs and the costs of personnel, material, energy, and administration. The user charge system shall provide that the costs of operation and mainte- nance for all flow not directly attributable to users be distributed equally among the users. The system shall provide for an annual review of charges. A user charge system shall be adopted by all [political subdivisions] municipalities (as defined in 40 CFR 35.2005(b)(27) receiving waste treatment services [from the recipient] if required by federal law. 
(B) Low Income Residential User Rates. 1. Recipients may establish lower user charge rates for low 
income residential users after providing for public notice and hear- ing, in accordance with section 250.233, RSMo. The criteria used to determine a low income residential user must be clearly defined. 
2. The costs of any user charge reductions afforded a low income residential class must be proportionately absorbed by all other user classes. The total revenue for operation and maintenance (including equipment replacement) of the facilities, and debt retire- ment must not be reduced as a result of establishing a low income residential user class. 
(C) The sewer[-] use ordinance shall prohibit any new connections from inflow sources into the treatment works and require that new sewers and connections to the treatment works are properly designed and constructed. The ordinance also shall require that all wastewater introduced into the treatment works not contain toxic or other pollu- tants in amounts or concentrations that endanger public safety and physical integrity of the treatment works; cause violation of effluent or water quality limitations; preclude the selection of the most cost- effective alternative for wastewater treatment and sludge disposal; or inhibit the performance of a pretreatment facility. The ordinance shall require all users to connect to the system within ninety (90) days of service availability. 
[(18)](17) Specifications. The construction specifications must con- tain the features listed in the following: 
(A) Recipients must incorporate in their specifications a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product, or service to be procured. The description, in competitive procurements, shall not contain features which unduly restrict com- petition unless the features are necessary to test or demonstrate a specific thing or to provide for interchangeability of parts and equip- ment. The description shall include a statement of the qualitative nature of the material, product, or service to be procured and, when necessary, shall set forth those minimum essential characteristics and 

Page 1604 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
standards to which it must conform if it is to satisfy its intended use; (B) The recipient shall avoid the use of detailed product specifica- 
tions if at all possible; (C) When in the judgment of the recipient it is impractical or 
uneconomical to make a clear and accurate description of the techni- cal requirements, recipients may use a “brand name or equivalent” description as a means to define the performance or other salient requirements of an item to be procured. The recipient need not estab- lish the existence of any source other than the named brand. Recipients must state clearly in the specification the salient require- ments of the named brand [which must] to be met by offerers and that other brands may be accepted; 
(D) Sole Source Restriction. A specification shall not require the use of structures, materials, equipment, or processes which are known to be available only from a sole source, unless the department determines that the recipient’s engineer has adequately justified in writing to the department that the proposed use meets the particular project’s minimum needs; 
(E) Experience Clause Restriction. The general use of experience clauses is restricted to special cases. 
1. The general use of experience clauses requiring equipment manufacturers to have a record of satisfactory operation for a speci- fied period of time or of bonds or deposits to guarantee replacement in the event of failure is restricted to special cases where the recipi- ent’s engineer adequately justifies any such requirement in writing. Where this justification has been made, submission of a bond or deposit shall be permitted instead of a specified experience period. The period of time for which the bond or deposit is required shall not exceed the experience period specified[;]. 
2. The general use of experience clauses requiring contrac- tors to have a record of satisfactory experience for a specified period of time or the completion of a specified number of similar projects is restricted to special cases where the recipient’s engi- neer adequately justifies any such requirement in writing. Such justification shall not unduly restrict competition or result in excessive bonding requirements. Where this justification has been made, submission of a bond or deposit shall be permitted instead of the specified experience. The period of time for which the bond or deposit is required shall not exceed the experience period specified; 
(F) Domestic Products Procurement Law. In accordance with sec- tions 34.350–34.359, RSMo, the bid documents shall require all manufactured goods or commodities used or supplied in the perfor- mance of any contract or subcontract awarded on a loan project to be manufactured, assembled, or produced in the United States, unless obtaining American- made products would increase the cost of the contract by more than ten percent (10%); 
(G) Bonding. On construction contracts exceeding [one hundred] fifty thousand dollars [($100,000)] ($50,000), the bid documents shall require each bidder to furnish a bid guarantee equivalent to five percent (5%) of the bid price. In addition, the bid documents must require the successful bidder to furnish performance and payment bonds, each of which shall be in an amount not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the contract price; 
(H) State Wage Determination. The bid documents shall contain the current prevailing wage determination issued by the Missouri Department of Labor and Industrial Relations, Division of Labor Standards as established by 290.210-290.340, RSMo; 
(I) [Contractors for ARRA-funded projects] Davis-Bacon Wage Requirements. Construction of treatment of works must comply with the Davis-Bacon [Act (40 U.S.C. 276a–276a-7)] requirements in accordance with 29 CFR 5.5. The current Davis- Bacon wage rate from the United States Department of Labor must be incorporated in the bid documents; 
(J) Small, Minority, Women’s, and Labor Surplus Area Businesses. The recipient shall [take affirmative steps and the bid documents shall require the bidders to take affirmative steps to assure that small, minority, and women’s business- 
es are used when possible as sources of supplies, construc- tion, and services. Affirmative steps shall include the follow- ing:] comply with 2 CFR 200.321 and 40 CFR part 33; 
[1. Including qualified small, minority, and women’s businesses on solicitation lists; 
2. Ensuring that small, minority, and women’s business- es are solicited whenever they are potential sources; 
3. Dividing total requirements, when economically feasi- ble, into small tasks or quantities to permit maximum partic- ipation of small, minority, and women’s businesses; 
4. Establishing delivery schedules, where the require- ments of the work permit, which will encourage participa- tion by small, minority, and women’s businesses; 
5. Using the services and assistance of the Small Business Administration and the Office of Minority Business Enterprise of the United States Department of Commerce as appropriate; and 
6. If the contractor awards sub agreements, requiring the subcontractor to take the affirmative steps in paragraphs (18)(J)1.–5. of this rule;] 
(K) Debarment/Suspension. The recipient agrees to [deny partic- ipation in services, supplies or equipment to be procured for this project to any debarred or suspended firms or affiliates in accordance with Executive Order 12549] follow 2 CFR part 180 subpart C and 2 CFR 200.213. The recipient acknowl- edges that doing business with any party listed on the List of Debarred, Suspended or Voluntarily Excluded Persons may result in disallowance of project costs under the assistance agreement; 
(L) Right of entry to the project site must be provided for repre- sentatives of the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, Clean Water Commission, and the EIERA so they may have access to the work wherever it is in preparation or progress. Proper facilities must be provided for access and inspections; 
(M) The specifications must include the following statement: “The owner shall make payment to the contractor in accordance with sec- tion 34.057, RSMo.”; and 
(N) [Buy American Provision. For ARRA funded projects, the specifications must include the following statement or a similar statement in accordance with federal guidance: “All iron, steel, and manufactured goods used in this project must be produced in the United States unless a) a waiver is provided to the owner by the Environmental Protection Agency or b) compliance would be inconsistent with United States obligations under international agreements.”] American Iron and Steel. Specifications shall adhere to require- ments under 33 U.S.C. 1388 for projects involving the construc- tion, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a treatment works. 
[(19)](18) Construction Equipment and Supplies Procurement. This section describes the minimum procurement requirements which the recipient must use under the CWSRF program. The recipient must conduct procurements in a manner that prohibits the use of statutorily or administratively imposed state or local geographi- cal preferences in the evaluation of bids or proposals, except in those cases where applicable Federal statutes expressly mandate or encourage geographic preference. 
(A) Small Purchases. A small purchase is the procurement of materials, supplies, and services when the aggregate amount involved in any one (1) transaction does not exceed one hundred fifty thousand dollars [($100,000)] ($150,000). The small purchase lim- itation of one hundred fifty thousand dollars [($100,000)] ($150,000) applies to the aggregate total of an order, including all estimated handling and freight charges, overhead, and profit to be paid under the order. In arriving at the aggregate amount involved in any one (1) transaction, all items which should properly be grouped together must be included. Department [approval] concurrence and a minimum of three (3) quotes must be obtained prior to purchase. 
(B) Bidding Requirements. This subsection applies to procurement 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1605 

of construction equipment, supplies, and construction services in excess of one hundred fifty thousand dollars [($100,000)] ($150,000) awarded by the recipient for any project. No contract shall be awarded until the department has approved the formal advertising and bidding. 
1. Formal advertising. A. Adequate public notice. The recipient will cause adequate 
notice to be given of the solicitation by publication in newspapers of general circulation beyond the recipient’s locality (preferably statewide), construction trade journals, or plan rooms, inviting bids on the project work and stating the method by which bidding docu- ments may be obtained or examined. 
B. Adequate time for preparing bids. A minimum of [twen- ty-one (21)] thirty (30) days shall be allowed between the date when public notice, publication, insertion, or document available in a plan room is first published or provided and the date by which bids must be submitted. Bidding documents shall be available to prospec- tive bidders from the date when the notice is first published or pro- vided. Recipients are encouraged to directly solicit bids from prospective bidders. 
2. Bid document requirements and procedure. The recipient shall prepare a reasonable number of bidding documents (invitations for bids) and shall furnish them upon request on a first-come, first- served basis. The recipient shall maintain a complete set of bidding documents and shall make them available for inspection and copying by any party. The bidding documents shall include, at a minimum: 
A. A complete statement of the work to be performed or equipment to be supplied and the required completion schedule; 
B. The terms and conditions of the contract to be awarded; 
C. A clear explanation of the method of bidding and the method of evaluation of bid prices and the basis and method for award of the contract or rejection of all bids; 
D. Responsibility requirements and criteria which will be employed in evaluating bidders; 
E. The recipient shall provide for bidding by sealed bid and for the safeguarding of bids received until public opening; 
F. If a recipient desires to amend any part of the bidding doc- uments during the period when bids are being prepared, addenda shall be communicated in writing to all firms which have obtained bidding documents in time to be considered before the bid opening time. All addenda must be approved by the department prior to award of the contract; 
G. A firm which has submitted a bid shall be allowed to mod- ify or withdraw its bid before the time of bid opening; 
H. The recipient shall provide for a public opening of bids at the place, date, and time announced in the bidding documents. Bids received after the announced opening time shall be returned unopened; 
I. The recipient may reserve the right to reject all bids. Unless all bids are rejected for good cause, [A]award shall be to the lowest, responsive, responsible bidder. 
(I) After bids are opened, the recipient shall evaluate them in accordance with the methods and criteria set forth in the bidding documents. 
(II) The recipient shall award contracts only to responsible contractors that possess the potential ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed contract. A responsible contractor is one that has financial resources, technical qualifica- tions, experience, organization, and facilities adequate to carry out the contract or a demonstrated ability to obtain these. The [recipient may reserve the right to reject all bids. Unless all bids are rejected for good cause, award shall be made to the low, responsive, responsible bidder, the] recipient shall have estab- lished protest provisions in the specifications. These provisions shall not include the department as a participant in the protest procedures. 
(III) If the recipient intends to make the award to a firm which did not submit the lowest bid, the recipient shall prepare a written statement before any award, explaining why each lower bid- der was deemed non-responsible or nonresponsive and shall retain 
the statements in its files. (IV) The recipient shall not reject a bid as nonresponsive 
for failure to list or otherwise indicate the selection of subcontrac- tor(s) or equipment unless the recipient has clearly stated in the solicitation documents that the failure to list shall render a bid non- responsive and [shall] cause rejection of a bid; and 
[J. The recipient is encouraged though not required to use the model specification clauses developed by the depart- ment; and] 
[K.]J. Departmental concurrence with contract award must be obtained prior to actual contract award. Recipients shall notify the department in writing of each proposed construction contract which has an aggregate value over the one hundred fifty thousand dollars [($100,000)] ($150,000). The recipient shall notify the department within ten (10) calendar days after the bid opening for each construc- tion sub agreement. The notice shall include: 
(I) Proof of advertising; (II) Tabulation of bids; (III) The bid proposal from the bidder that the recipient 
wishes to accept, including justification if the recommended success- ful bidder is not also the lowest bidder; 
(IV) Recommendation of award; 
(V) Any addenda not submitted previously and bidder acknowledgment of all addenda; 
(VI) Copy of the bid bond or bid guarantee; (VII) One (1) set of as-bid specifications; (VIII) Suspension/Debarment Certification; (IX) Certification that the recipient has the necessary funds 
to complete the project if bids exceed available [loan] CWSRF fund- ing; 
(X) MBE/WBE Worksheet; 
(XI) Recipient’s statement that proposed contractor(s) pos- itive efforts, MBE/WBE utilization, or both, have been reviewed and meet regulatory requirements; [and] 
(XII) Site certification, if not previously submitted[.]; and (XIII) Certification of Non-segregated Facilities. 
[(20)](19) Changes in Contract Price or Time. The contract price or time may be changed only by a change order. The value of any work covered by a change order or of any claim for increase or decrease in the contract price shall be determined by the methods set forth in the following: 
(A) Unit Prices. 1. Original bid items. Unit prices previously approved are 
acceptable for pricing changes of original bid items. However, when changes in quantities exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the original bid quantity and the total dollar change of that bid item is greater than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), the recipient shall review the unit price to determine if a new unit price should be negotiated. 
2. New items. Unit prices of new items shall be negotiated; (B) A lump sum to be negotiated; and (C) Cost Reimbursement. The actual cost for labor, direct over- 
head, materials, supplies, equipment, and other services necessary to complete the work plus an amount to cover the cost of general over- head and profit. 
[(21)](20) Progress Payments to Contractors. (A) It is the commission’s policy that recipients should make 
prompt progress payments to prime contractors and prime contrac- tors should make prompt progress payments to subcontractors and suppliers for eligible construction, supplies, and equipment costs. 
1. For purposes of this section, progress payments are defined as follows: 
A. Payments for work in place; and 
B. Payments for materials or equipment which have been delivered to the construction site or which are stockpiled in the vicin- ity of the construction site in accordance with the terms of the con- tract, when conditional or final acceptance is made by or for the 

Page 1606 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
recipient. The recipient shall assure that items for which progress payments have been made are adequately insured and are protected through appropriate security measures. 
(B) Appropriate provisions regarding progress payments must be included in each contract and subcontract. 
(C) Retention from Progress Payments. The recipient may retain a portion of the amount otherwise due the contractor. The amount the recipient retains shall be in accordance with section 34.057, RSMo. 
[(22)](21) Classification of Costs. The information in this section represents policies and procedures for determining the eligibility of project costs for assistance under programs supported by this regula- tion and 40 CFR part 35 subpart I, including Appendix A. 
(A) General. All project costs will be eligible if they meet the fol- lowing tests: 
1. Reasonable and cost effective; 
2. Necessary for the construction of an operable wastewater facility and other projects, as defined in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended, including required mitigation; and 
3. Meet the eligibility limitations of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended. 
(B) Eligible Costs. Eligible costs include, at a minimum: 1. Engineering services and other services incurred in planning and in preparing the design drawings and specifications for the pro- ject. [These services and their related expenses can be reim- bursed based on actual invoices to be submitted after loan closing.] For invoice reimbursement, the department must have a copy of the executed engineering contract for planning and design of 
the project; 2. The cost [of subagreements] incurred pursuant to a con- 
tract for building those portions of the project which are for treat- ment of wastewater, correction of I/I, or for new interceptor sewers. These costs include change orders within the allowable scope of the project and the costs of meritorious contractor claims for increased costs under sub agreements; 
3. The reasonable cost of engineering services incurred during the building and initial operation phase of the project to ensure that it is built in conformance with the design drawings and specifica- tions. A registered professional engineer licensed in Missouri or a person under the direction and continuing supervision of a registered professional engineer licensed in Missouri must provide inspection of construction for the purpose of assuring and certifying compliance with the approved plans and specifications. Eligible construction phase and initial operation phase service are limited to— 
A. Office engineering; B. Construction surveillance; C. Stakeout surveying; D. As-built drawings; E. Special soils/materials testing; F. Operation and maintenance manual; G. Follow-up services and the cost of start-up training for 
operators of mechanical facilities constructed by the project to the extent that these costs are incurred prior to this department’s final inspection. Costs shall be limited to on-site operator training tailored to the facilities constructed or on- or off-site training may be provid- ed by the equipment manufacturer if this training is properly pro- cured; 
H. User charge and sewer[-] use ordinance; and 
I. Plan of operation; 4. Demolition costs. The reasonable and necessary cost of 
demolishing publicly owned WWTF’s which are no longer utilized for wastewater collection, transportation, or treatment purposes. The reasonable and necessary cost of demolishing privately-owned WWTF’s which will be eliminated or replaced by a publicly-owned treatment works if the proposed elimination was addressed in the approved facility plan. Generally, these costs will be limited to the demolition and disposal of the structures, removal and disposal of 
biosolids, final grading, and seeding of the site; [5. Change orders and the costs of meritorious contrac- 
tor claims for increased costs under sub agreements: A. Within the allowable scope of the project; B. Costs of equitable adjustments due to differing site 
conditions; and C. Settlements, arbitration awards and court judg- 
ments which resolve contractor claims shall be allowable only to the extent that they are not due to the mismanage- ment of the recipient; 
6. Costs necessary to mitigate only direct, adverse, physical impacts resulting from building of the treatment works; 
7. The costs of site screening necessary to comply with environmental studies and facilities’ plans or necessary to screen adjacent properties; 
8. The cost of groundwater monitoring facilities neces- sary to determine the possibility of groundwater deteriora- tion, depletion, or modification resulting from building the project;] 
[9.]5. Equipment, materials, and supplies. A. The cost of a reasonable inventory of laboratory chemicals 
and supplies necessary to initiate plant operations and laboratory items necessary to conduct tests required for plant operation. 
B. Cost of shop equipment installed at the treatment works necessary to the operation of the works. 
C. The costs of necessary safety equipment, provided the equipment meets applicable federal, state, local, or industry safety requirements. 
D. The costs of mobile equipment necessary for the operation of the overall wastewater treatment facility, transmission of waste- water or sludge, or for the maintenance of equipment. These items include: 
(I) Portable standby generators; 
(II) Large portable emergency pumps to provide pump- around capability in the event of pump station failure or pipeline breaks; and 
(III) Trailers and other vehicles having as their purpose the transportation, application, or both, of liquid or dewatered sludge or septage; [and] 
[(IV)]E. The cost of a reasonable inventory of [R]replace- ment parts identified and approved in advance for new wastewater treatment facilities; 
[10. Costs of royalties for the use of or rights in a patented process or product with the prior approval of the department;] 
[11.]6. Land or easements [when used as an integral part of the treatment process] required to complete the project. In order to be eligible for reimbursement, [L]land must be purchased in accordance with the Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, P.L. 91- 646, as amended. Certification by the recipient of compliance under this Act is required; 
[12.]7. The cost of I/I correction, other than normal mainte- nance costs, and treatment works capacity adequate to transport and treat I/I; 
[13.]8. Purchase of a private wastewater system, provided the project will eliminate or upgrade the existing facilities. The pur- chase of a private wastewater system must be purchased in accor- dance with the Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, P.L. 91- 646, as amended. Certification by the recipient of compliance under this Act is required; 
[14. Force account work for construction oversight and engineering planning and design. If force account is used for planning and design, all engineering services during con- struction must be provided through force account;] 
[15.]9. The cost of preparing [an] environmental [impact 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1607 

statement if] documentation required under 10 CSR 20-4.050; [16.]10. Nonpoint source projects as identified in the most cur- 
rent Missouri Nonpoint Source Management Plan; [17.]11. Construction permit application fees, costs of 
issuance, capitalized interest, and contracted project administration costs; 
[18.]12. Debt service reserve deposits; 
[19.]13. Collector sewers provided that they meet the require- ments of either— 
A. For major rehabilitation or replacement of collection sew- ers that are needed to assure the total integrity of the system; or 
B. New collector sewers for existing communities where suf- ficient treatment capacity exists or adequate treatment will be avail- able when collectors are completed; 
[20.]14. Correction of combined sewer overflows; 
[21.]15. House laterals if they lie within the public easement and will be maintained by the [loan] recipient; [and] 
[22.]16. Storm water transport and treatment systems, and non- point source best management practices[,]; 
17. Third party costs, incurred under a contract, associated with preparing a fiscal sustainability plan; 
18. Energy conservation projects that reduce energy con- sumption including energy efficient equipment and certain renewable energy facilities; 
19. Water conservation projects that reduce demand for publicly-owned water treatment works including water meters, water efficient appliances, education programs, and incentive programs; and 
20. Planning and assessments activities including asset man- agement plans, capital improvement plans, integrated planning, long term control plans, water or energy audits, treatment works security and safety plans, or environmental management sys- tems. 
(C) Non-eligible costs include, but are not limited to: 
[1. The cost of ordinary site and building maintenance equipment such as lawnmowers and snowblowers; 
2. The cost of general purpose vehicles for the trans- portation of the recipient’s employees;] 
[3.]1. Costs [allowable] for the purposes in paragraphs [(22)(B)11.] (21)(B)6. and (21)(B)8. that are in excess of just com- pensation based on the appraised value or amount determined in con- demnation; 
[4.]2. Ordinary operating expenses of the recipient including salaries and expenses of elected and appointed officials, preparation of routine financial reports and studies, EIERA application fees, and the state operating permit fees or other such permit fees necessary for the normal operation of the constructed facility; 
[5.]3. Preparation of applications and permits required by fed- eral, state, or local regulations or procedures; 
[6.]4. Administrative, engineering, and legal activities associat- ed with the establishment of special departments, agencies, commis- sions, regions, districts, or other units of government; 
[7.]5. Personal injury compensation or damages arising out of the project; 
[8.]6. Fines and penalties due to violations of, or failure to comply with, federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or procedures; 
[9.]7. Costs outside the scope of the approved project; 
[10.]8. Costs for which grant or loan payments have been or will be received from another state or federal agency; and 
[11.]9. Force account work [except that listed in paragraph (22)(B)14.; and]. 
[12. Costs associated with acquisition of easements and land except that listed in paragraph (22)(B)11., unless and until Congress determines otherwise.] 
[(23)](22) Operation and Maintenance. (A) Operation and Maintenance Manual. The recipient must make 
provision satisfactory to the department for assuring effective opera- 
tion and maintenance of the constructed project throughout its design life. If required by the department, recipients of assistance for con- struction of mechanical facilities must develop an operation and maintenance manual. The operation and maintenance manual, if required, must be submitted by eighty percent (80%) construction completion. 
(B) Start-Up Training. At fifty percent (50%) construction com- pletion, a start-up training proposal (if required) and proposed fol- low-up services contract must be submitted. This contract must be approved by ninety percent (90%) construction completion. 
(C) Wastewater Operator. The recipient must make provision sat- isfactory to the department for assuring that qualified wastewater operator and maintenance personnel are hired in accordance with an approved schedule. Qualified personnel shall be those meeting the requirements established under 10 CSR 20-9.020. 
[(24)](23) Retention of Records. [This section describes the minimum record retention requirements for recipients of financial assistance.] 
[(A) Construction-Related Activities.] The recipient must retain all [financial, technical, and administrative] records [related to the planning, design, and construction of the pro- ject for a minimum period of four (4) years following receipt of the final construction payment from the associated finan- cial assistance or the recipient’s acceptance of construction, whichever is later. Records shall be available to state, federal officials, or both, for audit purposes during normal business hours during that period.] according to the retention schedules established by chapter 109, RSMo. A longer retention period may be required under the loan documentation. 
[(B) Post-Construction Financing Activities. The recipient must retain all financial and administrative records related to post-construction project financing for a minimum period of four (4) years following full repayment of any assistance on the project.] 
[(25)](24) Conflict of Interest. No employee, officer, or agent of the recipient shall participate in the selection, award, or administration of a sub agreement supported by state or federal funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved. 
(A) This conflict would arise when— 1. Any employee, officer, or agent of the recipient, any member 
of their immediate families or their partners have a financial or other interest in the firm selected for a contract; or 
2. An organization which may receive or has been awarded a sub agreement employs, or is about to employ, any person under paragraph [(25)] (24)(A)1. 
(B) The recipient’s officers, employees, or agents shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of substantial mone- tary value from contractors, potential contractors, or other parties to sub agreements. 
(25) Disposition of Treatment Works. The recipient must receive the written consent of the department prior to the disposal of the wastewater treatment works or any material part thereof financed or refinanced with the proceeds of a loan. 
(A) If at any time during the term of the loan a recipient desires to sell, lease, mortgage, or otherwise dispose of the waste- water treatment works or any part thereof, the recipient shall abide by the provisions for disposal as contained in the recipient’s loan documentation between the recipient and the department. Disposition of treatment works to entities not listed in subsection (7)(A) of this rule will require immediate repayment of assis- tance. 
(B) Once loan repayment is complete, ownership of facilities, equipment, and real property purchased under the program with a current value in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000) may be transferred only with written permission of the department. 

Page 1608 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(C) If at any time within thirty (30) years after initiation of operations of the project, the wastewater treatment works funded with a CWSRF grant, or any part thereof, is sold, either outright or on contract for deed, to other than a political subdivision of the state, the state shall receive reimbursement of the grant funds. The total amount of grant funds to be reimbursed shall be based on a thirty (30) year straight-line depreciation based on the original costs of the facilities being sold and adjusted for the per- centage of grant funds originally disbursed to fund such facilities. Grant funds to be reimbursed shall become due and payable upon transfer of ownership. 
(26) Procurement of Design-Build Services. The procurement of design-build services shall be in accordance with section 67.5060, RSMo. Recipients that are exempt from section 67.5060, RSMo. may also utilize design-build services if local ordinances or poli- cies allow design-build and the procurement of the design-build team considers both the qualifications of the team and the project selected meets the cost effectiveness requirements of subsection 10(B). Recipients seeking funds for a project utilizing design- build services must notify the department with the recipient’s CWSRF application. Recipients that utilize design-build services shall coordinate procurement activities with the department to ensure compliance with CWSRF requirements. The department may restrict the amount of funding available for projects using design-build services, if needed to comply with federal law and regulations. 
(27) Plan of Study. Facility planning loans, not to exceed a five (5) year repayment term, or grants may be provided by the commis- sion to applicants with an existing publicly owned wastewater sys- tem. Applicants that desire to receive a loan for facility planning must submit a plan of study. The plan of study should include the following information (generally in fifteen pages or less): 
(A) Maps of the planning area showing boundaries, political jurisdictions, river basins and surface water bodies, and service areas of existing wastewater treatment facilities; NPDES permits; the existing population; a brief description of existing wastewater facilities; and the communities and major industries served; 
(B) The agencies and jurisdictions involved in the planning. Include any joint resolutions or agreements among jurisdictions that designate a lead agency or official to serve as applicant; 
(C) The nature and scope of planning, including a description of the need for the project, and facilities planning tasks and schedule; and, 
(D) An itemized description of costs to complete tasks and an estimate of total cost for the facility plan. 
(28) Fiscal Sustainability Plan. A fiscal sustainability plan as established in section 603(d)(1)(E) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, shall be prepared by the recipient receiving a loan for a treatment works repair, replacement, or expansion. For purposes of this paragraph “loan” does not include an agreement where the department is purchasing an obligation (e.g. municipal bonds) from the recipient. 
(29) Intended Use Plan (A) The priority point criteria will be published in draft form 
annually and be adopted by the commission after a public com- ment period has been conducted. The adopted priority point cri- teria will be published on the department’s website. 
(B) Priority Lists. Each year, following a public hearing, the commission shall establish priority lists for using future antici- pated state and federal funding allocations. These lists shall con- tain at a minimum several parts, as described in subsections (B)1. through (B)4. of this rule. These lists shall become effective annually with the adoption of the Intended Use Plan. However, the commission may bypass projects on these lists for failure to proceed to grant award or loan closing in an expeditious manner. 
1. Fundable List. The commission may establish one or more fundable priority lists which identify those projects which meet the readiness to proceed criteria. The commission may specify fund allocations across multiple fundable priority lists in order to distribute available funds statewide and meet CWSRF program goals. Projects will be listed in priority point order within each fundable list. 
2. Fundable Contingency Priority List. The fundable contin- gency priority list identifies those projects meeting the readiness to proceed criteria, however, there are insufficient available funds. Projects will be listed in priority point order regardless of the date which the readiness to proceed criteria are met. 
3. Contingency Priority List. The contingency priority list identifies those projects which may be considered for funding during a given fiscal year if the applicant secures an acceptable debt instrument. Projects will not be considered for the contin- gency priority list unless a complete facility plan has been sub- mitted for review. 
4. Planning List. The planning list identifies all potentially eligible grant or loan projects not contained on a fundable or contingency priority list. Planning list projects may advance to the contingency or fundable lists, with commission approval, upon meeting the readiness to proceed criteria. 
(C) Modifications. After the commission adopts the Intended Use Plan, it may modify the priority lists or redistribute the available funds in accordance with subsections (C)1. through (C)4. of this rule. The commission may only take this action after providing notice to those projects directly affected. 
1. Inadequate Allocations. If the actual funding is less than the allocations anticipated by the commission in the development of the Intended Use Plan, or if previous allocations are reduced, the commission may find it necessary to reduce their commit- ments to projects on the fundable lists. The commission may take formal action to reduce the number of commitments in accor- dance with paragraphs (C)1.A. through (C)1.C. of this rule. 
A. The commission may reduce the amount of funds allo- cated to each purpose as shown in the Intended Use Plan. 
B. The commission may remove the lowest priority pro- jects from the fundable priority lists, placing these projects on the appropriate contingency priority list in a position dictated by their priority relative to others on that contingency priority list. 
C. The commission may bypass projects on the fundable priority lists in accordance with subsection (C)3. of this rule. 
2. Unanticipated and Uncommitted Funds. If unanticipated or uncommitted funds become available, the commission may take formal action to distribute them in accordance with para- graphs (C)2.A. through (C)2.C. of this rule. 
A. The commission may use the unanticipated or uncom- mitted funds to move the highest priority project(s) from contin- gency priority list to the proper fundable priority list. 
B. The commission may use the unanticipated or uncom- mitted funds to increase the amount of funds allocated to the var- ious purposes as shown in the Intended Use Plan. 
C. The commission may use the unanticipated or uncom- mitted funds to increase the amount of funds allocated to pro- jects on the fundable priority list or to provide increased assis- tance to projects which have already received assistance. 
3. Project Bypass. The commission may bypass any project on the fundable priority list which is not, in the commission’s opinion, making satisfactory progress in satisfying requirements for assistance. Bypassed projects will be removed from the fund- able priority list and placed on the proper contingency priority or planning list in a position dictated by the commission. In determining whether a project is making satisfactory progress in satisfying the requirements for assistance, the commission shall use the criteria contained in paragraphs (C)3.A. through (C)3.C. of this rule. The commission may reinstate any bypassed projects on the fundable priority lists after first giving notice to applicants for those projects on the contingency lists of the commission’s 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1609 

intent to reinstate bypassed projects. Funds released through project bypass will be considered uncommitted and available for distribution in accordance with subsection (C)2. of this rule. 
A. Any project on the fundable lists may be bypassed if the applicant fails to submit all documents required for assis- tance at least sixty (60) days prior to the quarter for which assis- tance is anticipated. 
B. The commission may use individual project schedules developed by the department to determine whether a project on the current fundable list is making satisfactory progress at those times during the fiscal year. 
C. Carryover projects may be automatically bypassed if they do not have all documents required for assistance submitted three (3) months before the end of the federal fiscal year in which their application expires. 
4. Project Removal. The department will remove projects from the contingency, fundable, or planning lists if they meet any one (1) of the criteria stated in paragraphs (C)4.A. through (C)4.E. of this rule. 
A. The department will remove a project if it has received one (1) or more funding commitments necessary to cover the esti- mated project cost or has been fully funded by other funding sources. 
B. The department will remove a project if it is deter- mined to be ineligible for funding. 
C. The department will remove projects from these lists if directed by commission action under subsections (C)1. or (C)3. of this rule. 
D. The department will remove projects from these lists if directed to do so by the Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with federal law. 
E. The department will remove a project from these lists at the request of the applicant. 
AUTHORITY: sections 644.026 [and], 644.101, and 644.121, [RSMo 2000 and section 644.101,] RSMo [Supp. 2009] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 13, 1988, effective Feb. 14, 1989. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, attn. Hannah Humphrey, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to fac@dnr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for the Clean Water Commission to be held at 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018 at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring/Roaring River Conference Rooms, 1730, East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-4.041 Direct Loan Program. The department is replac- ing “state revolving fund” with “Clean Water State Revolving Fund” 
in the purpose statement; rewording and amending to reference new amendment of 10 CSR 20-4.040 in section (1); adding “Clean Water” to “State Revolving Fund” and adding “CW” to “SRF” in two sections of (2), and adding “or other funds” to indicate funding of direct loans; amending section (3) and adding ‘‘Clean Water” to “State Revolving Fund”, adding provisions from 10 CSR 20-4.040 that do not apply to direct loans to clarify the language, removal of eligibilities and proposals to Missouri Water and Wastewater Review Committee; removal of content and addition of reference to 10 CSR 20-4.040 will be followed and application process of direct loan in section (4); removal of (A) and (B) in section (5) with the addition of the use of target interest rate (TIR) under section (4) of 10 CSR 20-4.040; removal of “Construction Loans” and (A)–(C), renumber- ing of (D) to (A) with rewording and removal of construction refer- ence, changing reference due to amendment, and numbering of (E) to (B); removal of (A) 1.–4., (B) in (7) and reference to population, amending of (A) with changes to reference in this rule and addition of escrow agreement statement, addition of (A)–(D); removal of rule (8); renumbering (9) to (8) in two (2) areas of this rule along with amending rule, amending (A) of this section with the addition of 1.– 3. explaining amortization schedules, amending (B) and (C) of this section, and removing (E) of this section; renumbering (10) to (9) and amending rule along with the addition of clarifying loan fees; renumbering (11) to (10) with amendment to reference 10 CSR 20- 4.040 (6); renumbering (12) to (11) with the addition of EIERA for the authority to make specific refinements. 
PURPOSE: The amendment revises the purpose of the rule, removes inconsistencies between this rule and 10 CSR 20-4.040, clarifies pro- visions of 10 CSR 20-4.040, and incorporates requirements from the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. 
PURPOSE: This rule sets forth the requirements for implementation of direct loan programs to be financed through the Clean Water [s]State [r]Revolving [f]Fund program contained in 10 CSR 20-4.040 or the State Direct Loan Program. 
(1) General. The department may make direct loans by purchasing the general obligation bonds, revenue bonds, short-term notes, or other acceptable obligation of any qualified applicant for the plan- ning, design and/or construction of an eligible project. These loans shall not exceed the total eligible project costs as described in 10 CSR 20-4.040[(23)](21) less any amounts financed by [any] other means [other than through the applicable direct loan pro- gram]. 
(2) Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) Direct Loans. Funding for these loans is from CWSRF loan repayments [or], fed- eral capitalization grants, or other funds. The provisions and requirements of the Clean Water State Revolving Fund General Assistance Regulation, 10 CSR 20-4.040, apply to loans awarded under this regulation. 
(3) State Direct Loan Program. Funding for these loans is from state bond funds and loan repayments. The provisions and requirements of the Clean Water State Revolving Fund General Assistance Regulation, 10 CSR 20-4.040, apply to loans awarded under this reg- ulation unless specifically provided for herein. [In addition to those eligible items specified in 10 CSR 20-4.040, loans made under this program may incorporate as an eligible pro- ject cost: easements, rights-of-way and land acquisition inte- gral to the project. Eligibility shall be limited to fair market value. Applicants must have submitted a preliminary project proposal to the Missouri Water and Wastewater Review Committee (MWWRC) and received an invitation from the MWWRC to apply for financial assistance.] The following pro- visions of 10 CSR 20-4.040 do not apply: 
(A) 10 CSR 20-4.040(3) except for (A)2.; 

Page 1610 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(B) 10 CSR 20-4.040(7); (C) 10 CSR 20-4.040(9)(A)3.; (D) 10 CSR 20-4.040(9)(B); (E) 10 CSR 20-4.040(11)(B)2.; (F) 10 CSR 20-4.040(14); (G) 10 CSR 20-4.040(17)(I); (H) 10 CSR 20-4.040(17)(J); (I) 10 CSR 20-4.040(17)(N); (J) 10 CSR 20-4.040(18)(B)2.K.(XIII); (K) 10 CSR 20-4.040(28); and (L) 10 CSR 20-4.040(29). 
(4) [Letter of Intent. The department may issue a letter of intent to make a direct loan when the application documents are approved and the commission approves the project for receipt of loan funds. The letter of intent shall state the amount of funds reserved for the project, the requirements to qualify for receipt of loan funds and the schedule for the applicant to meet all requirements. The department may ter- minate this letter of intent for failure to meet the schedule requirements or conditions of the letter of intent. The amount of assistance stated in the letter of intent may be adjusted to reflect actual costs, subject to commission approval and the availability of funds.] Funding Allocation. 
(A) CWSRF Direct Loans. The department will follow 10 CSR 20-4.040. 
(B) State Direct Loans. After receiving applications and the department determines that the application is complete and eli- gible, the department will take the application before the Clean Water Commission for allocation of funding. 
(5) Interest Rates. 
[(A) The interest rate charged by the department on direct loans shall be equal to the target interest rate calculated] The department will use the target interest rate (TIR) policy as estab- lished by the commission under section (4) of 10 CSR 20-4.040. [Interest on construction loans will begin accruing on the last day of the month in which a construction advance is made and will be compounded at the end of each month after that until such time as the construction loan along with all interest accrued is paid in full.] 
[(B) Direct loans provided as a match to the Hardship Grant Program as provided for in 10 CSR 20-4.043 shall have a zero percent (0%) interest rate.] 
(6) [Construction Loans] Reimbursement Terms. [(A) The department may award construction loans to qualified applicants in order to provide interim financing dur- ing construction of their project. Construction loans may contain clauses and provisions determined by the depart- 
ment to be necessary to protect the interests of the state. (B) With exception of substate revolving funds, the con- struction loan will remain in force throughout the construc- tion period. However, it must be paid in full no later than six (6) months following the initiation of operation of the facility constructed by the project or the closing deadline provided 
in the construction loan agreement, whichever is earlier. (C) If the department is to provide long term financing under this rule, then the construction loan must contain an agreement by the department and the recipient that the department will purchase the recipient’s general obligation, revenue bonds or other acceptable debt obligation after con- struction is completed. If a construction loan is awarded, the permanent financing amount will be limited in amount to the sum of the payments drawn from the construction loan for eligible project costs plus interest accrued on the construc- tion loan plus the reasonable costs of issuance which can be 
financed under Missouri statutes.] 
[(D)](A) [Unless specifically addressed in the loan docu- ments, the recipient may request construction loan payments no more often than monthly.] The maximum [construction advance shall] reimbursement will be no more than the sum of all eligible costs incurred to date. Each payment request shall include the information listed in the following paragraphs [(4)(D)](6)(A)1.–3. and other information deemed necessary by the department to insure prop- er project management and expenditure of public funds: 
1. Completed reimbursement request form; 
2. Construction pay estimates signed by the construction con- tractor, the recipient, and the [resident inspector] consulting engi- neer, if applicable; and 
3. Invoices for other eligible services, equipment, and supplies for the project. 
[(E)](B) If the department is satisfied that the payment request accurately reflects the eligible cost incurred to date on the project, the department will request that [a] state payment [check] be issued to the recipient. 
(7) Trustee or Paying Agent. [(A)] The department may require the recipient to contract with a 
trustee or paying agent to provide [all or part of] the services listed in [the following paragraphs] subsections (7)(A)[1.–4.]–(D) of this rule[. The department may require recipients of less than thirty thousand (30,000) service area population to use the services of the trustee, to—], along with other such services as detailed in the participant’s escrow agreement. 
[1. Make joint assistance payments to the recipients and their contractors; 
2. Ensure that payments are only released to those recipients whose contractors have a project contract approved by the department; 
3. Ensure that none of the recipient’s contractors receive more in assistance payments than approved by the department; and 
4. Maintain financial records of credits and debits for the construction project. 
(B) If a SRF or state direct loan is matched with a grant awarded under 10 CSR 20- 4.023, the maximum loan amount will be calculated as follows: grant amount divided by four-tenths (.4) less the grant amount plus approved costs of issuance and capitalized interest, as appropriate.] 
(A) Maintain separate trust funds and accounts for recipients; (B) Disburse funds to recipients; (C) Collect principal and interest quarterly payments from 
recipients; and (D) Provide monthly financial reports to recipients. 
[(8) Purchase of Obligations. The department shall purchase revenue bonds, general obligation bonds or other acceptable debt obligations from the recipient no later than six (6) months following initiation of operation of the facilities con- structed by the project or by the closing deadline contained in the construction loan agreement, whichever is earlier. In addition to the requirements of this rule, the department may require the recipient to include those assurances and clauses in the loan agreements and bond resolutions as deemed nec- essary to protect the interest of the state.] 
[(9)](8) Amortization Schedules. The guidelines contained in the fol- lowing subsections [(9)](8)(A)–(E) are to be used to establish amor- tization schedules [for obligations purchased] under this rule: 
(A) For recipients of a state direct loan, [T]the bonds, notes, or other [debt] obligations shall be fully amortized [in no more than twenty (20)] for a period not longer than thirty (30) years after initiation of operation[;]. For CWSRF direct loan recipients, the bonds, notes, or other obligations shall be fully amortized for a period not longer than the earlier of: 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1611 

1. Thirty (30) years after initiation of operation; 2. The economic useful life of the project; or 3. Such other period of time that the department determines 
is appropriate and in the best interest of the CWSRF program. (B) The principal payment frequency [on any debt obligations] shall be no less than annual [with the first payment no later than one (1) year after the initiation of operation] and at least semi- 
annual for interest payments; (C) The amortization schedule may either be straight-line or 
declining schedules for the term of the [debt] obligation. The department may approve an alternative amortization method if deemed appropriate; 
(D) Repayment of principal shall begin not later than one (1) year after initiation of operation[; and]. 
[(E) If at any time during the loan period the facility(ies) financed under this rule is sold, either outright or on contract for deed, to another than a political subdivision of the state, the loan becomes due and payable upon transfer.] 
[(10)](9) Loan Fees. The department may charge annual loan fees not to exceed one-half percent (.5%) [of the outstanding loan bal- ance of each loan. Those fees are intended to reimburse the department for the cost of loan origination, loan servicing and administration of the program.] for state direct loans. CWSRF direct loan recipients will be charged a fee on the loan in accordance with 10 CSR 20-4.040(5). 
[(11)](10) Additional Administrative Fees Allowed. Additional administrative fees may be assessed by the department at the time the administration fee is calculated [for failure by a recipient to sub- mit approved documents to the department (for example, operation and maintenance manuals, plan of operation, enacted user charge and sewer use ordinances and executed contract documents) in accordance with the time frames provided under the program agreement entered into by the recipient. The additional fee will be an additional one-tenth percent (.1%) per month that the document remains delin- quent. The additional fee will be collected only during the year in which the document is not submitted] in accordance with 10 CSR 20-4.040(6). 
[(12)](11) Variations of Structure Permitted. This rule sets out the general format for the direct loan programs. The commission, EIERA, and the department shall have the authority to make specific refinements, variations, or additional requirements as may be neces- sary or desirable in connection with the efficient operation of the direct loan program. 
AUTHORITY: sections 644.026 and 644.122, RSMo [Supp. 1998] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 13, 1988, effective Feb. 14, 1989. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, attn. Hannah Humphrey, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to fac@dnr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for the Clean Water 
Commission to be held at 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018 at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring/Roaring River Conference Rooms, 1730, East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
10 CSR 20-4.042 Leveraged Loan Program. This rule set forth the requirements for implementation of a leveraged loan program to be financed through a combination of the Water and Wastewater Loan Fund or the Wastewater Revolving Loan Fund administered by the commission and funds made available from the proceeds of revenue bonds issued by the Environmental Improvement and Energy Resources Authority or the recipient. The leveraged loan program was designed to provide low interest loans to recipients to finance the planning, design and construction of wastewater treatment facilities. 
PURPOSE: The purpose of this rescission is to rescind the Leveraged Loan Program which is no longer utilized. The rule supported a his- toric financial structure of the CWSRF program and the leveraged loans are no longer awarded nor are they anticipated in foreseeable future. 
AUTHORITY: section 644.026, RSMo Supp. 1993. Original rule filed Sept. 13, 1988, effective Feb. 14, 1989. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, attn. Hannah Humphrey, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to fac@dnr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for the Clean Water Commission to be held at 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018 at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring/Roaring River Conference Rooms, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-4.050 Environmental Review. The department is restructuring the order and titles of the sections within this rule to be consistent with 60-13.030 (Environmental Review for Drinking Water); amending the purpose of the rule; amending section (1) with minor grammatical corrections; amending and renumbering section (1)(A) for clarification and to include a new criteria, (2)(A)1.C., which allows categorical exclusions for structures located within pre- viously disturbed rights-of-way; moving (1)(B) to new section (6); 

Page 1612 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
amending and renumbering sections (1)(C) (2) and (3) to replace the term “applicant with “recipient,” delete the requirement for recipi- ents to submit three copies of information, clarify the contents of an Environmental Information Document, remove the requirement for a recipient to obtain a verbatim transcript of public meetings and remove the requirement for recipients to publish environmental determinations in a local newspaper; and adding a new section (7) to allow the department to accept environmental reviews from other agencies. 
PURPOSE: The amendment includes new language for the purpose statement, updates the current language that establishes the require- ments for an environmental review, and removes duplicative lan- guage. 
[PURPOSE: As required by the provisions of Section 602(b)(6) of the Federal Clean Water Act, the department will conduct an interdisciplinary environmental review con- sistent with the National Environmental Policy Act of the project proposed for funding through the State Revolving Fund. This rule establishes the procedures for these environ- mental reviews. 
Editor’s Note: The secretary of state has determined that the publication of this rule in its entirety would be unduly cum- bersome or expensive. The entire text of the material refer- enced has been filed with the secretary of state. This mate- rial may be found at the Office of the Secretary of State or at the headquarters of the agency and is available to any interested person at a cost established by state law.] 
PURPOSE: This rule establishes procedures and requirements for environmental reviews for assistance from the Clean Water State Revolving Fund program. 
(1) General. The purpose of the environmental review [will] is to ensure that the project will comply with [the] applicable local, state, and federal laws and [commission] rules relating to the protection and enhancement of the environment. Based upon the staff’s review, the director [of staff] will make formal determinations regarding the potential social and environmental impacts of the proposed project. As necessary, the determination will include mitigative provisions as a condition of the provision of financial assistance for [building and] construction. [n]No financial assistance will be provided until a final environmental determination has been made. Nothing in [these] this rule[s] shall prohibit any public, private, or governmen- tal party from seeking administrative or legal relief from the deter- minations of the director [of staff]. 
[(A)](2) Basic Environmental Determinations. There are three (3) basic environmental determinations that will apply to projects pro- posed to be implemented with assistance from the fund. [These are a determination to categorically exclude a project from a for- mal environmental review, a finding of no significant impact/environmental assessment (FNSI/EA) based upon a formal environmental review and a determination to provide or not provide financial assistance based upon a record of decision (ROD) following the preparation of an environmen- tal impact statement (EIS). The appropriate determination will be based on the following criteria:] 
[1.](A) Categorical Exclusion. The categorical exclusion (CE) determination applies to categories of projects that have been shown over time not to entail significant impacts on the quality of the human environment. 
[A.]1. Projects which meet [either] any of the following crite- ria may be categorically excluded from formal environmental review requirements: 
[(I)]A. The project is directed solely toward minor rehabilita- 
tion of existing facilities, functional replacement of equipment, or toward the construction of related facilities adjoining the existing facilities that do not affect the degree of treatment or the capacity of the works. Examples include infiltration and inflow correction, reha- bilitation of existing equipment and structures, and the construction of small structures on existing sites; [and] 
[(II)]B. The project is in a community of less than ten thou- sand (10,000) population and is for minor expansions or upgrading of existing treatment works or on-site disposal systems are pro- posed[.]; or 
C. New underground sewer lines or conveyance structures located entirely in existing rights-of-way that have been previous- ly disturbed and supported by appropriate documentation to ver- ify rights-of-way location(s) and type(s) of previous disturbance. 
[B.]2. CEs will not be granted for projects that entail— [(I)]A. The construction of new collection lines located out- 
side existing rights-of-way; [(II)]B. A new discharge or relocation of an existing dis- 
charge; [(III)]C. An increase of more than thirty percent (30%) in the 
volume or loading of pollutants; [(IV)]D. Provision of a capacity for a population thirty per- 
cent (30%) or greater than the existing population; [(V)]E. Known or expected impacts to cultural resources, 
threatened or endangered species, or other environmentally sensitive areas; and 
[(VI)]F. The construction of facilities that are known or expected to be not cost-effective or are likely to cause significant public controversy[;]. 
[2.](B) Finding of No Significant Impact/Environmental Assessment (FNSI/EA). The FNSI/EA will be based upon an envi- ronmental review by the staff supported by an environmental infor- mation document (EID) prepared by the [applicant] recipient in conformance with guidance developed by the [commission] depart- ment. If a FNSI/EA is not appropriate, a public notice noting the preparation of an environmental impact statement (EIS) will be required. The director’s [of staff’s] issuance of a FNSI/EA will be based upon documentation that the potential environmental impacts will not be significant or that they may be mitigated without extraor- dinary measures[; and]. 
[3.](C) Record of Decision The Record of Decision (ROD) may only be based upon an EIS in conformance with the format and guidelines described in subsection [(2)](4)(C). An EIS will be required when the director of staff determines any of the following: 
[A.]1. The project will significantly [will] affect the pattern and type of land use or growth and distribution of the population; 
[B.]2. The effects resulting from any structure or facility con- structed or operated under the proposed action may conflict with local or state land use plans or policies; 
[C.]3. The project may have significant adverse impacts upon— [(I)]A. Wetlands; [(II)]B. Floodplains; [(III)]C. Threatened and endangered species or their habitats; [(IV)]D. Cultural resources including park lands, preserves, 
other public lands, or recognized scenic, recreational, [prime farm- lands,] archeological, or historic value; and 
[(V)]E. Prime farmland; [D.]4. The project will displace populations or significantly 
alter the characteristics of existing residential areas; and [E.]5. The project directly or indirectly (for example, through induced development) may have significant adverse effect upon local ambient air quality, local noise levels, surface and groundwater quan- 
tity or quality, fish, shellfish, wildlife, or their natural habitats. [(B) Other Determinations That Are Required of the 
Director of Staff. 1. Recognizing that a project may be altered at some 
time after an environmental determination on the project has been issued, the director of staff will provide that, prior to 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1613 

approval, the plans and specifications, loan application and related documents will be examined for consistency with the environmental determination. If inconsistencies are found, the director of staff may revoke a CE and require the prepa- ration of an FNSI/EA or an EIS, consistent with the criteria of subsection (1)(A) of this rule, or require the preparation of amendments to an FNSI/EA or supplements to an EIS, as appropriate. Based upon the staff’s review of the amended project, the director of staff will— 
A. Reaffirm the original environmental determination through the issuance of a public notice or statement of find- ing; 
B. Issue a FNSI for a project for which a CE has been revoked or issue a public notice that the preparation of an EIS will be required; 
C. Issue an amendment to a FNSI/EA or revoke a FNSI and issue a public notice that the preparation of an EIS will be required; or 
D. Issue a supplement to a ROD or revoke a ROD and issue a public notice that financial assistance will not be pro- vided. 
2. When five (5) or more years have elapsed between the last environmental determination and the submittal of an application to the fund, the director of staff will reevaluate the project, environmental conditions and public views and, prior to approval of the application, proceed in accordance with subsection (3)(A).] 
[(C) Other Determinations That Are Available to the Commission.] 
(3) Construction Prior to Environmental Review. [1.](A) [An applicant] A recipient may request advance author- 
ity to construct part of the proposed [wastewater treatment] pro- ject prior to completion of the necessary environmental review when the part of the project will— 
[A.]1. Remedy a severe public health, water quality or environ- mental problem immediately; 
[B.]2. Not preclude any reasonable alternatives identified for the complete system; 
[C.]3. Not cause significant direct or indirect environmental impacts including those which cannot be acceptably mitigated with- out completing the entire project; and 
[D.]4. Not be highly controversial. [2.](B) Based upon the review of the information required by sec- 
tion [(2)] (4) of this rule, the director [of staff] will issue a FNSI/EA so conditioned as to prohibit construction of the remainder of the pro- ject until a complete environmental review has been performed and a subsequent environmental determination has been issued. 
[(2)](4) Environmental Information Required [by the Commission. A minimum of three (3) copies of all informa- tion required in this section shall be submitted to the com- mission] for Environmental Review. 
(A) [Applicants] Recipients seeking a CE will provide the direc- tor [of staff] with sufficient documentation to demonstrate compli- ance with the criteria of subsection [(1)](2)(A). At a minimum, this will consist of a— 
1. Brief, complete description of the proposed project and its costs; 
2. Statement indicating that the project is cost-effective and that the [applicant] recipient is financially capable of constructing, operating, and maintaining the facilities; and 
3. Plan map(s) of the proposed project showing— A. The location of all construction areas; B. The planning area boundaries; and C. Any known environmentally sensitive areas. 
(B) An EID must be submitted by those [applicants] recipients whose proposed projects do not meet the criteria for a CE and for 
which the director [of staff] has made a preliminary determination that an EIS will not be required. The director [of staff] will provide guidance on both the format and contents of the EID to potential [applicants] recipients prior to initiation of facilities planning. 
1. At a minimum, the contents of an EID will include: A. The purpose and need for the project; B. Information describing [T]the current environmental 
setting of the project and the future [of the] environmental setting without the project; 
C. The alternatives to the project as proposed; D. A description of the proposed project; E. The potential environmental impacts of the project as pro- 
posed including those which cannot be avoided; F. The relationship between the short-term uses of the envi- 
ronment and the maintenance and enhancement of long-term produc- tivity; 
G. Any irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources to the proposed project; 
H. Proposed mitigation measures to minimize the environ- mental impacts of the project; 
[H.]I. A description of public participation activities con- ducted, issues raised, and changes to the project which may be made as a result of the public participation process; and 
[I.]J. Documentation of coordination with appropriate gov- ernmental agencies. 
2. Prior to the [applicant’s] recipient’s adoption of the facili- ties plan, the [applicant] recipient will hold a public meeting or hearing on the proposed project and the EID, and provide the direc- tor [of staff] with a [verbatim transcript] complete record of the meeting or hearing. [The director of staff will provide guidance to the applicant regarding the contents of the hearing notice and of the hearing.] The meeting or hearing will be advertised at least thirty (30) days in advance in a local newspaper of general cir- culation. [Concurrent with the advertisement, a notice of the public hearing and availability of the documents will be sent to all local, state and federal agencies and public and private parties that may have an interest in the proposed project.] Included with the [transcript] meeting record will be a list of all attendees with addresses, any written testimony and the [appli- cant’s] recipient’s responses to the issues raised. 
[3. The department will provide copies of the FNSI/EA to all federal, state and local agencies and others with an interest in the project.] 
(C) The format of an EIS will encourage sound analyses and clear presentation of alternatives, including the no-action alternative and the selected alternative and their environmental, economic, and social impacts. The following format must be followed by the [appli- cant] recipient unless the director [of staff] determines there are compelling reasons to do otherwise: 
1. A cover sheet identifying the [applicant] recipient, the pro- ject(s), the program through which financial assistance is requested and the date of publication; 
2. An executive summary consisting of a five to fifteen (5–15) page summary of the critical issues of the EIS in sufficient detail that the reader may become familiar with the proposed project and its cumulative effects. The summary will include: 
A. A description of the existing problem; B. A description of each alternative; C. A listing of each alternative’s potential environmental 
impacts, mitigative measures, and any areas of controversy; and D. Any major conclusions; 
3. The body of the EIS which will contain the following infor- mation: 
A. A complete and clear description of the purpose and need for the proposed project that clearly identifies its goals and objec- tives; 
B. A balanced description of each alternative considered by the [applicant] recipient. The descriptions will include the size and 

Page 1614 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
location of the facilities and pipelines, land requirements, operation and maintenance requirements, and construction schedules. The alternative of no action will be discussed and the [applicant’s] recipient’s preferred alternative(s) will be identified. Alternatives that were eliminated from detailed examination will be presented with the reasons for their elimination; 
C. A description of the alternatives available to the [commis- sion] department including: 
(I) Providing financial assistance to the proposed project; 
(II) Requiring that the proposed project be modified prior to providing financial assistance to reduce adverse environmental impacts or providing assistance with conditions requiring the imple- mentation of mitigative measures; and 
(III) Not providing financial assistance; D. A description of the alternatives available to other local, 
state, and federal agencies which may have the ability to issue or deny a permit, provide financial assistance or otherwise affect or have an interest in any of the alternatives; 
E. A description of the affected environment and environ- mental consequences of each alternative including secondary and cumulative impacts. The affected environment on which the evalua- tion of each alternative will be based includes, as a partial listing, hydrology, geology, air quality, noise, biology, socioeconomics, land use, and cultural resources of the facilities planning area. The depart- ment will provide guidance, as necessary, to the [applicant] recipi- ent regarding the evaluation of the affected environment. The discus- sion will present the total impacts of each alternative in a manner that will facilitate comparison. The effects of the no-action alternative must be included to serve as a baseline for comparison of the adverse and beneficial impacts of the other alternatives. A description of the existing environment will be included in the no-action section to pro- vide background information. The detail in which the affected envi- ronment is described will be commensurate with the complexity of the situation and the significance of the anticipated impacts; 
4. The draft EIS will be provided to all local, state, and federal agencies and public groups with an interest in the proposed project and be made available to the public for review. The final EIS will include all objections and suggestions made before and during the draft EIS review process along with the issues of public concern expressed by individuals or interested groups. The final EIS must include discussions of any comments pertinent to the project or the EIS. All commenters will be identified. If a comment has led to a change in either the project or the EIS, the reason should be given. The department will always endeavor to resolve any conflicts that may have arisen, particularly among permitting agencies, prior to the issuance of the final EIS. In all cases, the comment period will be no less than forty-five (45) days; 
5. Material incorporated into an EIS by reference will be orga- nized into a supplemental information document and be made avail- able for public review upon request. No material may be incorporat- ed by reference unless it is reasonably available for inspection by interested persons within the comment periods specified in paragraph [(2)](4)(C)4. and subparagraph [(2)](4)(C)7.C.; 
6. When an EIS is prepared by contractors, either in the service of the [applicant] recipient or the department, the department will independently evaluate the EIS prior to issuance of the ROD and take responsibility for its scope and contents. The staff who undertake this evaluation will be identified under the list of preparers along with those of the contractor and any other parties responsible for the content of the EIS; and 
7. The public participation required for an EIS is extensive but, depending upon the nature and scope of the proposed project, should be supplemented by the [applicant] recipient. The following requirements represent the minimum allowable: 
A. Upon making the determination that an EIS will be required of a proposed project, the department will distribute a notice of intent to prepare an EIS; 
B. As soon as possible after the notice of intent has been 
issued, the director [of staff] will convene a meeting of the affected federal, state, and local agencies, the [applicant] recipient and other interested parties to determine the scope of the EIS. A notice of this scoping meeting may be incorporated into the notice of intent or prepared as in paragraph [(2)](4)(B)2. of this rule except that in no case will the notification period be less than forty-five (45) days. As part of the scoping meeting, the director [of staff] at a minimum will— 
(I) Determine the significance of issues and analyze in depth the scope of those significant issues in the EIS; 
(II) Identify the preliminary range of alternatives to be con- sidered; 
(III) Identify potential cooperating agencies and determine the information or analyses that may be needed from cooperating agencies or other parties; 
(IV) Discuss the method for EIS preparation and the public participation strategy; 
(V) Identify consultation requirement of other laws and regulations; and 
(VI) Determine the relationship between the preparation of the EIS and the completion of the facilities plan and any necessary arrangements for coordination of the preparation of both documents; and 
C. Following the scoping process, the director [of staff] will begin the identification and evaluation of all potentially viable alter- natives to adequately address the range of issues developed in the scoping. A summary of this, including a list of the significant issues identified, will be provided to the [applicant] recipient and other interested parties. Preparation of the EIS will be done at the discre- tion of the [commission] department: directly, by the staff; by con- sultants to the [commission] department; or by a consultant con- tracted by the [applicant] recipient subject to approval by the [com- mission] department. In the latter two (2) cases, the consultant will be required to execute a disclosure statement prepared by the depart- ment signifying they have no financial or other conflicting interest in the outcome of the project. Both the draft EIS and final EIS will be distributed and made available for public review in a fashion consis- tent with the requirements of paragraph [(2)](4)(B)2. of this rule except that the advertisement and comment period for the public par- ticipation will be no less than forty-five (45) days. The department will publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the project area, a notice of availability of the EIS giving locations at which it will be available for public review at least forty-five (45) days prior to mak- ing any environmental determination. 
[(3)](5) Environmental [Review] Determination. (A) When the director [of staff] has determined that an [appli- 
cant’s] recipient’s proposed project may be excluded from a formal environmental review, the director [of staff] will prepare a [public notice of the] determination to categorically exclude the project [ and the availability of supporting documentation for public inspection. The notice will be published in a local newspaper of community-wide circulation by the applicant]. The director [of staff, concurrent with the publication,] will distribute [the notice] the determination to [all] interested [parties] federal agencies, state, and local governments, and entities that have expressed an interest in the proposed project, and a copy will be made available to the public upon request. 
(B) An environmental review of the proposed project, supported by the [applicant’s] recipient’s EID, will be conducted by the director [of staff] to determine whether any significant impacts are anticipated and whether any changes may be made in the proposed project to eliminate significant adverse impacts. As part of this review, the director [of staff] may require the [applicant] recipient to submit additional information or undertake additional public par- ticipation and coordination to support its environmental determina- tion. Based on the environmental review, the director [of staff] will prepare a FNSI/EA describing— 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1615 

1. The purpose and need for the proposed project; 2. The proposed project including its costs; 3. The alternatives considered and the reasons for their rejection 
or acceptance; 4. The existing environment; 5. Any potential adverse impacts and mitigative measures; and 6. Any proposed conditions to the provision of financial assis- 
tance and any means provided for the monitoring of compliance with the conditions. 
(C) When the director has determined that a FNSI/EA will be issued, the director will prepare FNSI/EA determination. The FNSI/EA will be distributed to [all parties, governmental] inter- ested federal agencies, state and local governments, and entities [and agencies] that [may] have expressed an interest in the pro- posed project, and a copy will be available to the public upon request. No action regarding approval of the facilities plan or the provision of financial assistance will be taken by the director [of staff] for at least thirty (30) days after the issuance of the FNSI/EA. 
(D) Public participation requirements for an EIS are detailed in paragraph [(2)](4)(B)2. except the ROD and final EIS shall have a forty-five- (45-)[-] day period of notice. 
[(E) In accordance with paragraphs (1)(B)1. and 2. and subsection (1)(C), the director of staff will conduct environ- mental reviews and issue public notices or amended deter- minations as appropriate.] 
(6) Environmental Determination Modification. (A) Recognizing that a project may be altered at some time 
after an environmental determination on the project has been issued, the director will provide that, prior to approval, the plans and specifications, loan application and related documents will be examined for consistency with the environmental determina- tion. If inconsistencies are found, the director may revoke a CE and require the preparation of a FNSI/EA or an EIS, or require the preparation of amendments to a FNSI/EA or supplements to an EIS, as appropriate. Based upon the staff’s review of the amended project, the director will— 
1. Reaffirm the original environmental determination through the issuance of a public notice or statement of finding; 
2. Issue a FNSI for a project for which a CE has been revoked or issue a public notice that the preparation of an EIS will be required; 
3. Issue an amendment to a FNSI/EA or revoke a FNSI and issue a public notice that the preparation of an EIS will be required; or 
4. Issue a supplement to a ROD or revoke a ROD and issue a public notice that financial assistance will not be provided. 
(B) When five (5) or more years have elapsed between the last environmental determination and the submittal of an application to the fund, the director will reevaluate the project, environmen- tal conditions and public views and, prior to approval of the application, proceed with the environmental determination in accordance with section (5). 
(7) The director may, on a case by case basis, accept the environ- mental reviews, consistent with the National Environmental Policy Act completed by other state and federal agencies. Environmental reviews completed by other state and federal agencies must be less than five (5) years old unless reaffirmed. 
AUTHORITY: section 644.026, RSMo [Supp. 1993] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 13, 1988, effective Feb. 14, 1989. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, attn. Hannah Humphrey, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to fac@dnr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for the Clean Water Commission to be held at 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018 at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring/Roaring River Conference Rooms, 1730, East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-4.061 Storm Water Grant and Loan Program. The department is amending subsection (2)(J) and paragraph (5)(B)4. with minor terminology edits; deleting subsections (11)(A) through (C) as this portion of the rule has since expired; adding new subsec- tions (11)(A) and (B) to describe the current grant payment process; amending section (13) to describe the current grant repayment terms; and amending section (14) with a minor change in terminology. 
PURPOSE: The amendment removes outdated requirements for grant disbursements and updates grant repayment conditions. 
(2) Definitions. (J) Storm Water [Repayment Fund] Loan Revolving Fund. 
Fund containing repayments and interest from storm water loans originated from storm water control bonds. 
(5) Eligible Project Costs. The information in this section represents policies and procedures for determining the eligibility of project costs for assistance under the Storm Water Grant and Loan Program. 
(A) General. It is the policy of the commission that all project costs will be eligible if they meet the following tests: 
1. Reasonable and cost effective; 
2. Necessary for the construction of an operable storm water facility or for the completion of a comprehensive storm water master plan; and 
3. Included in the scope of the project as described in the appli- cation and engineering submittals. 
(B) Eligible Costs. Eligible costs include at a minimum: 1. Costs for development of a comprehensive storm water con- 
trol plan meeting the requirements of subsection (3)(D); 2. Engineering services for planning and design based on invoiced amounts for a contracted engineering consultant. A copy of the approved engineering agreement must be submitted to the depart- ment or delegated entity when engineering services are to be reim- bursed with grant or loan funds. The contract should be a lump sum or cost plus fixed fee contract in the form of a bilaterally executed 
written agreement. 3. Costs for construction-related engineering when invoiced per 
an acceptable two (2)-party engineering agreement; 4. Construction costs including construction permits as issued 
by [DNR] the department; 5. Land purchase or permanent easement costs required for 
storm water holding basins, grass-lined channels, or for other limited structural storm water control projects, or buy-outs if the land pur- chased is restricted such that no permanent structure except for struc- tures allowed under the Missouri Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor 

Page 1616 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Recreation Plan (SCORP) may be constructed within the easement or purchase area. Construction costs related to holding basins on private land are eligible if the eligible recipient retains a permanent ease- ment, is legally responsible for operation and maintenance of the facility, and the basin constructed is clearly for storm water control and not recreational use; 
6. Costs of force account work for planning, design, construc- tion, construction engineering, and costs of rented or leased equip- ment. It does not include the costs of recipient-owned equipment or the costs of administration for grants and loans. Engineering per- formed by force account must meet the requirements of 10 CSR 20- 4.061(9) which state that storm water plan preparation, design, and inspection must be provided by a registered professional engineer or by a person under the direct and continuing supervision of a regis- tered professional engineer. To be considered for force account, the following information must be submitted for review and approval by the department prior to beginning on the project: 
A. Which project(s) they intend to do with city employees; 
B. The names of the employees who will be working on the project; 
C. A specific time code must be assigned to each project. The letter should state the time code number; 
D. For engineering work, the letter must contain an assur- ance that the employee is a registered professional engineer or the name of the professional engineer who directly supervises this per- son; 
E. The hourly wage for each individual must be given. If the person is salaried, this is the total annual salary divided by two thou- sand and eighty (2,080) hours. The hourly wage cannot include fringe or indirect costs; and 
F. A copy of the time card that will be used. The time card must list the employee name, project time code, hours worked, and the signature of the employee and the supervisor. Should there be a change in employees, salary, or engineering supervisor during the course of the project, the recipient must amend/update the informa- tion in the original letter before that salary and/or employee cost can be reimbursed; 
7. Demolition costs of structures located within storm water control areas provided future development of permanent structures in the storm water control area is restricted; 
8. Local cost of issuance and capitalized interest incurred on loans administered under this rule; 
9. Up to five (5) sequential years of grant and/or loan funding may be used for the same project if it meets the following criteria: 
A. The contract is awarded within the time frame necessary to receive the first grant and/or loan of the sequence; 
B. The recipient certifies that there are adequate funds com- mitted from other sources to complete the construction; 
C. The recipient commits to the original funding combination for the entire sequence of grants and/or loans; and 
D. The recipient certifies that the project will be completed with or without the subsequent years’ grant/loan funds. 
10. Costs associated with minimizing storm water damage to sink holes; 
11. The reasonable costs of administrative fees incurred by a delegated entity in connection with each grant; and 
12. One hundred percent (100%) of the reasonable costs of a grant anticipation loan will be eligible. Departmental approval must be obtained prior to securing the grant anticipation loan. Grant antic- ipation loan costs will be approved when the loan is needed for cash flow purposes for the period between the receipt of the letter of com- mitment and the first receipt of funds by the grantee. The approved costs of a grant anticipation loan will not increase the approved grant amount. 
(7) Grant Amount. The maximum grant is limited to fifty percent (50%) of the total eligible project costs or available funds, whichever is less. The recipient must provide the remaining amount needed to 
complete the project through a storm water loan administered by the [DNR] department or other acceptable source of funds. Grants may be matched with other state or federal grants up to one hundred per- cent (100%) of the eligible project costs. 
(11) Grant Payments. 
[(A) For Storm Water Grants and Storm Water Grant Amendments Made during the Period March 4, 2007 through August 30, 2007. For grants that are not matched with loans from this program, full payment will be made at the time of the department’s receipt of the executed grant award or grant amendment. The following provisions shall apply: 
1. Except for a delegated entity, the grantee shall estab- lish a separate escrow account with a bank as defined in Chapter 409, section 409-1.102, RSMo. The requirement to establish an escrow account may be waived for projects that are expected to be complete within three (3) months of grant award; 
2. The full grant amount, less any payments processed prior to the date of this rule, will be paid into the grantee’s established escrow account or to the grantee directly if the escrow account requirement has been waived; 
3. Grant funds paid to the escrow account or to the grantee may be used to pay up to fifty percent (50%) of the costs of section (5) of the rule. No funds may be withdrawn from the escrow account until the following conditions have been met: 
A. Projects involving construction and not paid through a delegated entity must submit to the department: 
(I) Construction plans and specifications, design cri- teria, and drainage basin plan prepared in accordance with subsection (3)(D) of this rule; and 
(II) Executed contract documents; B. All construction contracts must be awarded by 
December 31, 2007. For grants not paid through a delegated entity, it is the grantee’s responsibility to submit the construc- tion documents to the department no later than January 31, 2008. Failure to award the major construction contracts by December 31, 2007, will result in departmental recovery of the full grant amount; 
C. For grants for planning projects, the grantee must have all grant funds fully committed to the project by July 1, 2008; and 
D. Any funds remaining in an escrow account estab- lished under this subsection on January 1, 2010, will be recovered by the department; 
4. The grantee shall submit the bank statement of the escrow account monthly within thirty (30) days of the end of the month. If the monthly statement indicates that funds were withdrawn, the grantee shall submit copies of the invoices to document the costs. For grantees that have received grant funds when the escrow requirement has been waived, documentation shall be submitted within one hun- dred twenty (120) days of grant payment; and 
5. Projects administered through a delegated entity will be paid in accordance with that entity’s procedure on file with the department. 
(B) Storm Water Grants and Loans Made after August 30, 2007. Based on the cash flow circumstances of the storm water bond fund, the department may elect to pay out the full grant amount at the time of grant award or to make mul- tiple reimbursement payments to the grantee. 
1. If the department elects to make full payment of the grant amount, the payment shall be made at the time of the department’s receipt of the executed grant award. The fol- lowing provisions apply: 
A. Except for a delegated entity, the grantee shall 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1617 

establish a separate account dedicated to the storm water grant funds; 
B. The grant amount must be deposited to the dedi- cated account; 
C. Grant funds may be used to pay up to fifty percent (50%) of the eligible costs listed in section (5) of this rule. No funds may be withdrawn from the escrow account until the following conditions have been met: 
(I) For construction projects not paid through a del- egated entity, the grantee must submit and receive depart- mental concurrence for: 
(a) Construction plans and specifications pre- pared in accordance with subsection (3)(D) of this rule; and 
(b) Executed contract documents; and (II) For planning projects not paid through a delegat- ed entity, the grantee must have the department’s approval for all major consulting contracts, and a copy of the consult- 
ing contracts must be on file with the department; D. The bank account may earn interest; however, all withdrawals from the account must be documented with eli- gible invoices. If the project costs are inadequate to with- draw all the funds in the account, the balance must be 
refunded; E. Any funds remaining in an escrow account estab- 
lished under this subsection three (3) years after the initial payment will be recovered by the department; and 
F. The grantee shall submit the bank statement of the escrow account monthly within thirty (30) days of the end of the month. If the monthly statement indicates that funds were withdrawn, the grantee shall submit copies of the invoices to document the costs. 
2. If the department elects to make multiple grant pay- ments rather than fund the grantee’s escrow account, pay- ments can be requested no more frequently than monthly. The department will provide a payment form for the grantee to use. The payment request must be supported by invoices to document the costs incurred. Grant funds may be used to pay up to fifty percent (50%) of the eligible costs listed in section (5) of this rule. No funds will be released to the grantee until the following conditions have been met: 
A. For construction projects not paid through a dele- gated entity, the grantee must submit and receive depart- mental concurrence for: 
(I) Construction plans and specifications prepared in accordance with subsection (3)(E) of this rule; and 
(II) Executed contract documents; B. For planning projects not paid through a delegated 
entity, the grantee must have the department’s approval for all major consulting contracts, and a copy of the consulting contracts must be on file with the department; and 
C. Any funds remaining in the grant three (3) years after the date of the grant award will be recovered by the department. 
3. Projects administered through a delegated entity will be paid in accordance with the delegated entity’s procedure on file with the department. 
(C) An audit to verify eligible project costs will be made by the department after the completion and inspection of the project. Any funds found not expended for purposes listed in section (5) of this rule will be recovered in addition to any applicable penalties.] 
(A) Prior to the grant award, the department will notify the grantee how funds will be disbursed under the grant. 
1. No funds may be drawn from the grant until the following conditions have been met: 
A. For construction projects, the grantee must submit to the department: 
(I) Construction plans and specifications prepared in 
accordance with subsection (9)(A) of this rule; and (II) Executed contract documents. 
B. For planning projects, the grantee must have the department’s concurrence for all major consulting contracts, and a copy of the consulting contracts must be on file with the depart- ment; and 
C. The grantee has documented it has secured matching funds for the grant. 
2. Projects administered through a delegated entity will be paid in accordance with the delegated entity’s procedure on file with the department. 
(B) An audit to verify eligible project costs and inspection of the project may be made by the department. Any funds found not expended for purposes listed in section (5) of this rule will be recovered in addition to any applicable penalties. 
(12) Loan Requirements. (A) Loans shall be administered in accordance with the provisions 
in 10 CSR 20- 4.041 [or 10 CSR 20-4.042] except that the loan shall not be subject to requirements unique to wastewater treatment projects. When the storm water loan is funded through storm water control bonds, the loan shall not be subject to requirements specific to federal funding. 
(B) Loans must be secured with an acceptable debt instrument including revenue or general obligation bonds [or debt issued pur- suant to Environmental Improvement and Energy Resources Authority’s (EIERA) SRF program policy on annual appropri- ation backed debt]. Other financing securities will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. [Tax Increment Financing (TIF) security structures will not be considered. Loans must be amortized over twenty (20) years or less from loan closure.] Repayment must begin within one (1) year of project completion. 
(C) The commission may direct that existing and/or future loans be leveraged through the Environmental Improvement and Energy Resources Authority. 
[(D) Loan payments will be made no more frequently than monthly.] 
[(E)](D) If at any time during the loan period the facility(ies) financed under this rule is sold, either outright or on contract for deed, to other than a political subdivision of the state, the loan becomes due and payable upon transfer. 
(13) Repayment of Grant. [Repayment] A portion of the grant [is required if the applicant fails to obtain and meet reporting requirements of all DNR permits for all facilities owned by the recipient. The grant may also] will be required to be repaid [at a straight-line depreciated rate] if the facilities constructed with grant funds are sold or transferred to private ownership. The grantee shall notify the department at least ninety (90) days prior to any such transfer. The amount of grant funds to be repaid will be based on a straight-line depreciation schedule based on the useful life of the project, but in no event exceeding a thirty (30)- year depreciation schedule. 
(14) [Stormwater] Storm Water Loan Revolving Fund. Storm water grants and loans may be awarded from the [stormwater] storm water revolving fund as funds are available. Eligible appli- cants must be a municipality, county, public sewer district, public water district, or a combination of the same. Except for subsections (3)(A)–(C), all provisions of this regulation apply to grants and loans made from the [stormwater] storm water revolving fund. 
AUTHORITY: sections 644.026[, RSMo 2000] and [section] 644.570, RSMo [Supp. 2008] 2016. Original rule filed June 9, 1999, effective March 30, 2000. For intervening history, please con- sult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) 

Page 1618 
in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, attn. Hannah Humphrey, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to fac@dnr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for the Clean Water Commission to be held at 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018 at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring/Roaring River Conference Rooms, 1713 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 6—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-6.010 Construction and Operating Permits. The Clean Water Commission is amending sections (1) through (14), deleting and replacing sections (2) and (7), and adding a new section (15). 
PURPOSE: This amendment clarifies continuing authority require- ments, simplifies the list of projects requiring construction permits, removes duplicative language found in other regulations, requires electronic submittals of certain information, and serves as a general clean-up for consistency and clarity. 
PURPOSE: This rule sets forth the requirements and process of application for construction and operating permits, and the terms and conditions for the permits. This rule also clarifies the require- ments of the permit program, improves its administration, and brings the program in compliance with the latest federal regulations, 44 FedReg 32.854 (1979). 
(1) Permits—General. (A) All persons who build, erect, alter, replace, operate, use, or 
maintain existing point sources, or intend these actions for a pro- posed point source, water contaminant sources, or wastewater treat- ment facilities shall apply to the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (department) for the permits required [by the Missouri Clean Water Law and these regulations] in accordance with sections (4) and (7) of this rule. The [D]department issues these permits [in order] to enforce the Missouri Clean Water Law and reg- ulations and administer the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Program. 
(B) The following are exempt from [permit regulations] this rule: 
1. Nonpoint source discharges; 
2. Service connections to wastewater [sewer] collection sys- tems; 
3. [Internal plumbing and piping or other water diversion or retention structures within a manufacturing or industrial plant or mine, which are an integral part of the industrial or manufacturing process or building or mining operation. An operating permit or general permit shall be required, if the piping, plumbing, or structures result in a discharge to waters of the state;] Internal plumbing, piping, water diver- sion, or retention structures that are an integral part of an indus- trial process, plant, or operation that do not discharge to waters of the state; 
lection system, wastewater treatment facility, or other water contam- inant or point source; 
5. Onsite systems for [S]single family residences; 
6. The discharge of water from an environmental emergency cleanup site under the direction of, or the direct control of, the [Missouri Department of Natural Resources] department or the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), provided the discharge [shall] does not violate any condition of 10 CSR 20-7.031 Water Quality Standards; 
7. Water used in constructing and maintaining a drinking water well and distribution system for public and private use, geologic test holes, exploration drill holes, groundwater monitoring wells, and heat pump wells; 
8. [Small scale pilot projects or demonstration p]Projects for beneficial use, that do not exceed a period of one (1) year, may be exempted by written project approval from the [permitting authority] department. The department may extend the permit exemption for up to one (1) additional year[. A permit application shall be submitted at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the demonstration period if the facility intends to continue operation, unless other-wise exempted under this rule or Chapter 6; and]; 
9. The application of pesticides in order to control pests (e.g., any insect, rodent, nematode, fungus, weed, etc.) in a manner that is consistent with the requirements of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) and the Missouri Pesticide Use Act unless such application is made directly into or onto waters of the state, in which case the applicator shall obtain a permit[.]; 
10. Hydrostatic Testing. Persons discharging water used for the hydrostatic testing of new pipelines and storage tanks in the state of Missouri may discharge to waters of the state without first obtaining a permit if the discharge is de minimis (less than one thousand (<1,000) gallons) or meeting the requirements in section(14) of this rule; 
11. Nondischarging earthen basins for domestic wastewater flows of three thousand gallons per day (3,000 gpd) or less; and 
12. Rinsates and any spilled or recovered pesticides that are field applied at rates compatible with pesticide product labeling. (C) [Nothing shall prevent the Department from taking action, including the requirement for issuance of any permits under the Missouri Clean Water Law and regulations, if any of the activities exempted under subsection (1)(B) should cause pollution of waters of the state or otherwise violate the Missouri Clean Water Law or these regulations.] Permittees may pursue integrated planning to facilitate the use of 
sustainable and comprehensive solutions. 
[(2) Applications. (A) An application for, or for renewal of, a construction 
permit or operating permit shall be made on forms (see 10 CSR 20-6.090) provided by the Department. The applica- tions may be supplemented with copies of information sub- mitted for other federal or state permits. The application shall include a one inch equals two thousand feet (1” = 2000’) scale (or larger) map showing the location of all out- falls, as well as a flowchart indicating each process which contributes to an outfall. Each application must be accom- panied by the appropriate permit fee. Alternate scale maps are allowed upon the request of the applicant and approval of the Department of Natural Resources. 
(B) All applications must be signed as follows: 1. For a corporation, by an individual having responsibil- ity for the overall operation of the regulated facility or activ- ity, such as the plant manager, or by an individual having overall responsibility for environmental matters at the facili- 
ty; 2. For a partnership or sole proprietorship, by a general 
partner or the proprietor respectively; or 
4. Routine maintenance or repairs of any existing [sewer] col- 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1619 

3. For a municipal, state, federal, or other public facility, by either a principal executive officer or by an individual hav- ing overall responsibility for environmental matters at the facility. 
(C) All other reports required by the Department shall be signed by a person designated in subsection (2)(B) of this rule or a duly authorized representative, if— 
1. The representative so authorized is responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge occurs; and 
2. The authorization is made in writing by a person des- ignated in subsection (2)(B) of this rule and is submitted to the director. 
(D) Any changes in the written authorization which occur after the issuance of a permit shall be reported to the Department by submitting a new written authorization which meets the requirements of subsection (2)(C).] 
[(3)](2) Continuing Authorities. (A) [All applicants for construction permits or operating 
permits shall show as part of their application, that a perma- nent organization exists which will serve as the continuing authority for the operation, maintenance, and modernization of the facility for which the application is made. Construction and first-time operating permits shall not be issued unless the applicant provides such proof to the Department and the continuing authority has submitted a statement indicating acceptance of the facility.] Each appli- cation for a construction permit or operating permit shall identi- fy the person, as that term is defined in section 644.016(15), RSMo, that is the owner of, operator of, or area-wide manage- ment authority for a water contaminant source, point source, wastewater treatment facility, or sewer collection system. This person shall be designated as the continuing authority and shall sign the application. By doing so, the person designated as the continuing authority acknowledges responsibility for compliance with all permit conditions. 
(B) Continuing authorities [which can be issued permits to collect and/or treat wastewater under this regulation] are list- ed in preferential order in the following paragraphs. [An applicant may utilize a lower preference continuing authority by sub- mitting, as part of the application, a statement waiving pref- erential status from each existing higher preference authori- ty, providing the waiver does not conflict with any area-wide management plan approved under section 208 of the Federal Clean Water Act or any other regional sewage service and treatment plan approved for the higher preference authority by the Department:] A level three (3), four (4), or five (5) appli- cant may constitute a continuing authority by showing that the authorities listed under paragraphs (B)1.–2. of this rule are not available; do not have jurisdiction; are forbidden by state statute or local ordinance from providing service to the person; or has met one of the requirements listed in paragraphs (2)(C)1.-7 of this rule. 
1. Level 1 Authority. A municipality or public sewer district or governmental entity which has been designated as the area-wide management authority under section 208(c)(1) of the Federal Clean Water Act; 
2. Level 2 Authority. A municipality, public sewer district, or [sewer company regulated by the Public Service Commission (PSC)] governmental entity which currently provides [sewage] wastewater collection and/or treatment services on a regional or watershed basis as outlined in [10 CSR 20-6.010(3)(C)] subsec- tion (2)(E) of this rule and approved by the Missouri Clean Water Commission[. Permits shall not be issued to a continuing authority regulated by the PSC until the authority has obtained a certificate of convenience and necessity from the PSC]; 
3. Level 3 Authority. A municipality, public sewer district, or 
sewer company regulated by the Public Service Commission (PSC) other than one which qualifies under paragraph [(3)](2)(B)1. or 2. of this rule or a public water supply district. Permits shall not be [issued to] applied for by a continuing authority regulated by the PSC until the authority has obtained a certificate of convenience and necessity from the PSC; 
4. Level 4 Authority. Any person, industry, or group of per- sons contractually obligated to collectively act as a wastewater collection and treatment service, or nonprofit company organized under section 393.825, RSMo, with complete control of, and responsibility for[,] the water contaminant source, point source, or wastewater treatment [facility and all property served by it] sys- tem. [The person may constitute a continuing authority only by showing that the authorities listed under paragraphs (3)(B)1.–3. of this rule are not available, do not have jurisdic- tion, are forbidden by statute or ordinance from providing service to the person or, if available, have submitted written waivers as provided for in subsection (3)(B) of this rule; and] 
5. Level 5 Authority. An association of property owners served by the wastewater treatment facility, provided the applicant [shows] documents that— 
A. [The authorities listed in paragraphs (3)(B)1.–3. of this rule are not available or, that any available authorities have submitted written waivers as provided for in subsection (3)(B);] The association is a corporation in good standing regis- tered with the Office of the Missouri Secretary of State; 
B. The association owns the facility and has valid easements for all sewers; 
C. [The document establishing the association impos- es] The covenants on the land of each property owner which [assures the proper operation, maintenance, and moderniza- tion of the facility] provides the authority for compliance of wastewater treatment system including at a minimum: 
(I) The power to regulate the use of the collection system and/or the wastewater treatment facility; 
(II) The power to levy assessments on its members and enforce these assessments by liens on the properties of each owner; 
(III) The power to convey the facility to one (1) of the authorities listed in paragraphs [(3)](2)(B)1.–3.; and 
(IV) The requirement that members connect with the facil- ity and be bound by the rules of the association[; and]. 
[D. The association is a corporation in good standing registered with the Office of the Missouri Secretary of State.] (C) [The department will review the planning, design, con- struction, and designation of watershed or regional sewage works. Where development is insufficient to warrant immedi- ate construction of facilities for the entire watershed or region, interim facilities for a portion of the area shall be authorized as long as the design is compatible with 10 CSR 20-8, Design Guides.The department shall condition permits for these interim discharges so they will be eliminated upon the availability of watershed or regional facilities, At such time as watershed or regional facilities become available, and to the extent their capacity is sufficient, any existing subregional treatment works and/or lift stations shall be taken out of ser- vice and the tributary waste flows diverted into the watershed or regional facilities. A Regional Sewage Service and Treatment Plan shall be developed by all affected political jurisdictions and submitted to the Department. Staff will review the plan and submit recommendations to the Clean Water Commission. The Clean Water Commission may approve, require changes, deny the plan, and/or hold public hearings related to approval of the plan.] Applicants proposing use of a lower preference continuing authority, when the higher level authority is available, must submit one (1) of the following for the department’s review, provided it does not conflict with any area-wide management plan approved under section 208 of the Federal Clean Water Act or by the Missouri Clean Water 

Page 1620 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Commission: 1. A waiver from the existing higher authority; 2. A written statement or a demonstration of non-response 
from the higher authority declining the offer to accept manage- ment of the additional wastewater; 
3. A to-scale map showing that all parts of the legal bound- ary of the property to be connected are beyond two thousand feet (2000') from the collection system operated by a higher prefer- ence authority; 
4. A proposed connection or adoption charge by the higher authority that would equal or exceed what is economically feasi- ble for the applicant, which may be in the range of one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the applicant’s cost for constructing or operating a wastewater treatment system; 
5. A proposed service fee on the users of the system by the higher authority that is above what is affordable for existing homeowners in that area; 
6. Terms for connection or adoption by the higher authority that would require more than two (2) years to achieve full sewer service; or 
7. A demonstration that the terms for connection or adop- tion by the higher authority are not viable or feasible to home- owners in the area. 
(D) The Applicants for [I]industries, [including electric coop- eratives and mining operations, are by definition continuing authorities] shall submit a statement waiving preferential status from each existing higher preference authority listed in para- graphs (2)(B)1.,2., or 3. of this rule for collection and treatment of industrial [type wastewater and incidental], process, and domestic wastewater [associated with their operation when an authority listed in paragraph (3)(B)1. or 2. is infeasible] as part of a new operating permit application. 
(E) Private corporations which are not incorporated under the laws [of the state] of Missouri shall be represented by a registered agent in the state of Missouri before a construction permit or an operating permit will be issued by the department. 
(F) Application of Level 2 Authority. If a municipality or pub- lic sewer district wishes to provide wastewater collection and/or treatment services on a regional or watershed basis as outlined in paragraph (2)(B)2. of this rule, the entity shall— 
1. Submit a preliminary request to the Missouri Clean Water Commission through the department to obtain higher authority; 
2. Develop a plan, which includes, but not limited to: A. A discussion of regional treatment service; B. Capital improvements program; C. Process to provide waivers when sewer connection is 
not available; D. Approach to address permit compliance with facilities 
in the service area; E. Community financial capability information; and F. Defined service area map; 
3. Obtain and maintain authority through ordinances to compel wastewater users and facilities to connect for manage- ment of wastewater flows. The ordinance requires the recipient to notify all potential users of service availability and that all users connect to the system within the timeframe provided in the notice of service availability. Submit a copy of the enacted ordinance; 
4. Provide a public meeting prior to approval of the plan developed according to paragraph (2)(I)2. of the rule and the draft ordinance. Distribution of information and the publication of the notice of decision-making should occur for at least thirty (30) days. Following the public meeting, provide a copy of the transcript, attendance log, recording, or other complete record to the department; 
5. Submits a final request to the Missouri Clean Water Commission through the department, containing the fulfillment of paragraphs (2)(G)1.-4. of this rule, incorporating preliminary recommendations provided by the Missouri Clean Water 
Commission; 6. Staff will review the plan and present recommendations 
to the Missouri Clean Water Commission for action; 
(3) Antidegradation. Applicants seeking new or expanded dis- charges shall submit an antidegradation review request. 
(A) Applicants may submit their request on forms provided by the department, and other information in support of the project, including, but not limited to, the following: 
1. The Water Quality Review Assistance Antidegradation Review Request form, and the appropriate attachments; 
2. An antidegradation report detailing the proposed project; and 
3. Any additional information, evidence, documentation, technology performance information, modeling, or monitoring data consistent with the Antidegradation Implementation Procedure; and 
4. The appropriate fee according to 10 CSR 20-6.011. (B) Public comment. The department will place a public notice of the antidegradation determination on the department’s web- site and allow the public an opportunity to provide comments for a minimum of thirty (30) days. The antidegradation determina- 
tion may be revised as a result of comments received. 
(4) Facility Plans and Engineering Reports. Applicants seeking a construction permit shall submit a facility plan or engineering report unless otherwise designated by the department. 
(A) Submit the engineering report and/or facility plan prior to submittal of the Construction Permit Application, including the following, as applicable: 
1. A signed Facility Plan or Engineering Report. All facility plans and engineering reports are to be signed and sealed by a Missouri registered professional engineer, and contain the infor- mation in accordance with 10 CSR 20-8; 
2. Identify the alternative technical manuals and design cri- teria utilized that is different from the design guidance provided in 10 CSR 20-8.110 through 10 CSR 20-8.220; 
3. Submit one (1) hard copy and an electronic version (in Portable Document Format (PDF) searchable format or depart- ment approved equivalent) for review; 
4. For Engineering Reports— A. Submit a plan of the existing and proposed sewers for 
projects involving new sewer systems and substantial additions to existing systems; 
B. Submit a plan for projects involving construction or revision of pumping stations; 
C. Provide the design basis and operating life; 5. For Facility Plans— 
A. Submit an approved Water Quality Review and Antidegradation evaluation or determination for all new and expanding facilities, in accordance with 10 CSR 20-7.031(3). For non-funded projects, information submitted as part of the Antidegradation Report does not have to be resubmitted with the facility plan; 
B. Evaluate the feasibility of constructing and operating a facility with no discharge to waters of the state if the report is for a new or modified wastewater treatment facility; 
C. Evaluate the economics of the project including alter- natives to constructing a discharging system, including an evalu- ation of alternatives of wastewater irrigation or subsurface dis- persal and connection to a regional wastewater treatment facility; 
D. A geohydrological evaluation conducted by the depart- ment’s Missouri Geological Survey, for all proposed new con- struction, new earthen basins, new outfall locations, wastewater irrigation fields, and subsurface dispersal sites. Include any rec- ommendations provided in the geohydrological evaluation; 
E. A soil morphology analysis conducted by a duly quali- fied soil individual for all subsurface systems and for all waste- water irrigation systems applying more than twenty-four inches 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1621 

(24") per year. Submit on forms provided by the department. (B) Engineering reports and/or facility plans are exempt for 
the following non-funded projects: 1. Disinfection equipment projects for treatment types pro- 
mulgated in 10 CSR 20-8.190; 2. Projects exempted from construction permitting under 
subsection (5)(C) of this rule; 3. Sewer extensions permitted under the general construc- 
tion permit provided in subsection (5)(D) of this rule; 4. Sewer projects that submit a Missouri registered profes- sional engineer’s Sewer Extension Design Certification with the 
permit application; and 5. Treatment plants and/or sewer extensions by a permittee 
with their own authority under subsection (6) of this rule, if they are not receiving department funding. 
[(4)](5) Construction Permits. (A) [No] Any person [shall cause] causing or permitting the 
construction, installation, or modification of any [sewer] collection system [or of any water contaminant source, point source,] or wastewater treatment facility [without] shall first [receiving] receive a construction permit issued by the department [except] for any of the following activities: 
1. [Construction of a separate storm sewer; and] New or modified domestic wastewater discharges; 
2. [Facilities as provided in other 10 CSR 20-6 regula- tions.] New or modified surface and subsurface wastewater treat- ment for private or domestic wastewater treatment facilities; 
3. New or modified earthen basins used for wastewater stor- age or treatment including industrial operations and Class I Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations; 
4. Sewer extensions and/or pump stations; or 
5. Innovative technologies for domestic and publicly owned wastewater treatment, as defined by 10 CSR 20-8.140. 
(B) The following activities are exempt from construction per- mitting when the activities meet the applicable standards in 10 CSR 20-2 through 10 CSR 20-9. Projects exempt from construc- tion permitting may require professional engineering, as defined in section 327.181, RSMo 2016: 
1. Construction of a separate storm sewer; 
2. Sewer extensions one thousand feet (1,000') or less, including gravity sewers and/or force mains, with no more than one (1) pump station; 
3. Construction of less than three thousand gallons per day (3,000 gpd) non-discharging lagoon systems; 
4. Class II and smaller Animal Feeding Operations (AFO), as designated in 10 CSR 20-6.300; 
5. Nondomestic discharges of process wastewater except dis- charges utilizing an earthen basin; 
6. Stormwater best management practices, as defined in 10 CSR 20-6.200; 
7. Industrial facilities connecting to a publicly owned waste- water treatment facility; 
8. Treatment facilities evaluated and constructed under other department programs; 
9. Systems adding common metal salts for phosphorus removal prior to existing liquid-solids separation and tertiary fil- tration; 
10. Adding pre-engineered dechlorination equipment; 11. Solids processing equipment; 12. Like-for-like replacement (e.g., replacing eight-inch (8") 
pipe with eight-inch (8") pipe at the same location and grade, but material type may be different); 
13. Outfall relocation within the same receiving stream, close proximity to the existing outfall, and upon review by the department; 
14. Projects which the department has determined a con- struction permit is not required through written determination; 
and 15. Minor projects that change equipment or operations, but 
do not affect the overall capacity of the treatment or treatment type, including, but not limited to: 
A. Internal piping changes; B. pH adjustment; C. Addition of solids storage tanks; D. Screening equipment; E. Grit removal equipment; F. Administrative buildings; G. Fences and access roads; H. Flow measuring devices; I. Mixing equipment; J. Addition and/or improvement of sampling equipment; K. Replacement of aeration equipment; and L. Polymer additives. 
(C) General Permits for Sewer Extension Construction. Persons may apply for a general construction permit for con- struction of gravity sewer line extensions, pump stations, and force mains. 
[(B)](D) An applicant must submit [A]a separate construction permit application for each [sewer] collection system, [water con- taminant source, point source,] or wastewater treatment facility [must be submitted] to the department. Where there are multiple releases from a single operating location, however, one (1) application may cover all facilities and releases. For continuing authorities listed in paragraphs [(3)(B)1. or 2.] (2)(B)1., 2., or 3., submit only one (1) application [may be required] when the authority operates a [sewage] wastewater treatment [plant] facility and has one (1) or more other noncontinuous [storm water-related] stormwater dis- charges associated with the [sewage treatment plant] facility. 
(E) Demonstration Projects. Demonstration and pilot projects are innovative processes for which minimum design criteria is not well established. Demonstration or pilot projects shall be approved by the department prior to implementation of the new technology process or equipment. 
1. Pilot project installations are those whose discharge is returned to the existing treatment facility. They are installed for a period of one (1) year and are exempt from obtaining a con- struction permit after obtaining department approval of the pro- ject evaluation. Refer to paragraph (1)(B)8. of this rule. 
A. The project evaluation requirements are identified in 10 CSR 20-8.110(6). Pilot project installations are temporary and coordinated to ensure water quality is protected. 
2. A Demonstration Project installation is a full scale innov- ative technology process. All antidegradation, operating permit, and construction permitting requirements apply. 
A. Full scale demonstration projects in Missouri are not exempt from antidegradation or permit requirements. 
B. The treatment process must be based on reasonable and sound engineering principles. Include a project evaluation of a technical performance demonstration of treating pollutants of concern in Missouri or locations with a climate similar to Missouri. The expected project evaluation details are outlined in 10 CSR 20-8.110(6) including review of design criteria. 
C. An operating permit modification depends on the nature of the treatment process and will be determined during project review of the facility evaluation or plan. 
3. The technology remains a demonstration process until documentation verifies consistent performance as designed for treatment of pollutants of concern for twelve (12) consecutive months at three (3) sites in Missouri or locations with a climate similar to Missouri. Design subsequent installations of verified treatment processes based on established design criteria. 
[(C)](F) An applicant must submit [A]an application for a con- struction permit [must be submitted] to the department at least one hundred eighty (180) days for a wastewater treatment facility or sixty (60) days for collection system projects in advance of the 

Page 1622 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
date on which construction begins. [Requests for a shorter time for a review of a wastewater treatment facility may be made but must be accompanied by a detailed statement of the jus- tification for the request. No such statement is required when the application is only for the construction of sewers.] 
[(D)](G) An application [shall consist of] for a construction permit shall be made on forms provided by the department and includes the following items: 
1. [Unless not required by the department, an engineer- ing report shall be submitted by an engineer and shall con- tain the information required by 10 CSR 20-8.020 and 10 CSR 20-8.110–10 CSR 20-8.220. If the report includes a wastewater treatment facility, it shall include consideration of the feasibility of constructing and operating a facility which will have no discharge to waters of the state (see sec- tion (12) of this rule). Unless the department specifies oth- erwise, this report will be reviewed and necessary changes made before the plans and specifications in paragraph (4)(D)2. will be reviewed;] A Construction Permit Application Form signed— 
A. For a corporation, by an individual having responsibil- ity for the overall operation of the regulated facility or activity, such as the plant manager, or by a delegated individual having overall responsibility for environmental matters at the facility; 
B. For a partnership or sole proprietorship, by a general partner or the proprietor respectively; or 
C. For a municipal, state, federal, or other public facility, by either a principal executive officer or by a delegated individual having overall responsibility for environmental matters at the facility; 
2. Appropriate permit fee according to 10 CSR 20-6.011; 
3. An electronic copy of the construction permit application and the information listed below in Portable Document Format (PDF) searchable format or department approved equivalent, along with one (1) paper copy for projects not seeking depart- ment funding or two (2) paper copies for projects seeking department funding under 10 CSR 20-4; 
4. An approved Water Quality Review and antidegradation evaluation or determination for all new and expanding facilities, in accordance with 10 CSR 20-7.031(3); 
5. A summary of design; 
[2.]6. Detailed engineering plans and technical specifications [shall be submitted by an] signed, sealed, and dated by a Missouri registered professional engineer [and shall], which con- tains the information [required in 10 CSR 20-8.020 and 10 CSR 20-8.110–10 CSR 20-8.220] in accordance with 10 CSR 20-8, or other regulations as applicable; 
[3. An application form and permit fee; 
4. A one inch equals two thousand feet (1” = 2000’) scale map (or larger) showing the location of all outfalls (alternate scale maps are allowed upon the request of the applicant and approval of the Department of Natural Resources);] 
7. A map showing the location of all outfalls, with scale, as well as a flowchart indicating each process which contributes to an outfall; and 
[5.]8. Other information necessary to determine compliance with the Missouri Clean Water Law and these regulations as required by the department[; and]. 
[6. If a construction permit is waived by the depart- ment, or not required, the information in paragraphs (4)(D)1.–5. may be required with application for the operat- ing permit.] 
[(E)](H) If an application is incomplete or otherwise deficient, the applicant [shall] will be notified of the deficiency and processing of the application may be discontinued until the applicant has corrected all deficiencies. 
1. Applicants who fail to satisfy all department technical 
comments after two (2) certified comment letters, in a time frame established by the department, may have the application returned as incomplete and will forfeit the construction permit application fees. 
2. The department will act after receipt of all documents and information necessary for a properly completed application, as listed in subsection (5)(G) of this rule above and including appropriate filing fees, and other supporting documents as necessary, by either [issuing a notice of operating permit pending], issuing or denying the construction permit[, or denying the permit]. [The director in writing, shall give the reasons for a denial to the applicant. Applicants who fail to satisfy all department com- ments after two (2) certified department comment letters in a time frame established by the department shall have the application returned as incomplete and shall the construction fees shall be forfeited.] 
3. The applicant [has the right to] may submit a written request [that the time frames be extended when] additional time is needed prior to the conclusion of the set time frame. [The request must occur within the established time frame, it must be in writing and t]The department will grant reasonable time extensions. 
[(F) A notice of permit pending is a statement that the department intends to issue an operating permit. The depart- ment will issue the public notice of a pending new operating permit for a wastewater treatment facility before it issues the construction permit for the wastewater treatment facility. This allows the public an opportunity for comment prior to the construction of a wastewater treatment facility. A public notice will not be required prior to the issuance of a construc- tion permit for a sewer collection system. If a construction permit for a new wastewater treatment facility is not issued within one (1) year of the date of the notice of permit pend- ing, a new notice of permit pending will be issued.] 
(I) Notification in writing. A final determination whether the construction permit is approved, approved with conditions, or denied with reason, will be provided in writing to the applicant by the department within one hundred eighty (180) days. 
[(G)](J) Construction permits shall expire [one (1)] two (2) years from the date of issuance unless the permittee notifies the depart- ment within their application of the necessity for a longer con- struction period or the permittee applies for an extension. [The department shall extend construction permits only one (1) time. An applicant for this extension shall show that there have been no substantial changes in the original project and file for extension thirty (30) days prior to expiration. When a construction permit is issued for a project for which the con- struction period is known in advance to require longer that one (1) year from the date of issuance, the department may issue a permit allowing a period of time greater than one (1) year upon a showing by the applicant that the period of time is necessary and that no substantial changes in the project will be made without notifying the department. If there are changes, the department may require the applicant to apply for a new construction permit. Construction permits may be issued for a period of less than one (1) year when appropri- ate.] 
1. Submit requests for construction permit extension thirty (30) days prior to expiration. If there are changes, the depart- ment may require the applicant to apply for a new construction permit. 
(K) The minimum design standards requirements set forth in 10 CSR 20-8 do not preclude the department or the applicant from utilizing other published technical design guides during the 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1623 

application review process to ensure effluent limitations can be met. The department may request additional information and engineering justification to determine the facility’s ability to meet effluent limits. 
[(H)](L) Issuance of a construction permit does not constitute a guarantee by the department that the finished [water contaminant source, point source, or] wastewater treatment facility will meet specified effluent limitations. 
[(I) The applicant shall provide the Department with evi- dence the local planning and zoning agency has been noti- fied of the project and must update the Department on the status of any action by the local planning and zoning agency.] 
(M) A site specific operating permit application and appropri- ate modification fee shall be submitted with the construction permit application to allow for public participation prior to the issuance of a construction permit. An operating permit applica- tion and modification fee is not required with the construction permit application if- 
1. Effluent limits and permit conditions have been estab- lished and previously completed public notice and comment pro- cedures as part of an operating permit renewal; 
2. Effluent limits were established as part of the antidegra- dation review and the required public notice and comment pro- cedures were afforded in accordance with subsection (3)(E) of this rule; 
3. No new effluent limits and conditions are needed to be established in the existing operating permit, such as a facility description change; or 
4. Applicant is seeking a general permit. (N) The owner, owner’s designee, or the professional engineers 
shall certify a project is complete or substantially complete, with the submittal of a Statement of Work Completed form. 
1. If the project differs from the originally submitted plans and specifications, submit as-built plans clearly showing the alterations upon department request at the completion of the work. 
2. A representative of the department may inspect the com- pleted work in order to determine that the completed work sub- stantially adheres to the submitted engineering plans, technical specifications, Missouri Clean Water Law, and Missouri Clean Water Commission regulations. 
[(5) Operating Permits. (A) Persons who build, erect, alter, replace, operate, use, 
or maintain any water contaminant source, point source, or wastewater treatment facility which discharges to waters of the state shall obtain an operating permit from the depart- ment before any discharge occurs. The operating permit shall be issued to the owner/operator. Nondischarging facili- ties for the treatment or disposal of wastes, wastewater, or residuals shall obtain permits as provided in 10 CSR 20-6.015. Persons who intend to discharge in accordance with section (14) of this rule are permitted by rule and may discharge without additional written approval from the department. 
(B) Applications for an original operating permit for a facil- ity that had a valid construction permit and a prior public notice shall be received by the department at least thirty (30) days before the facility begins to receive wastewater. Applications shall include the earliest date on which the dis- charge is scheduled to begin. The department will issue or deny the permit within sixty (60) days of receipt of the appli- cation. No facility shall discharge without a valid operating permit. 
(C) Applications for the renewal of operating permits or for operating permits for facilities that did not require construc- tion permits must be received at least one hundred eighty 
(180) days either before the expiration date of the present operating permit or the date the facility begins to receive wastewater. 
(D) The department shall require that an engineer certify in writing that the project has been completed in accordance with its approved plans and specifications. A municipal offi- cial who has the responsibility for the operation and mainte- nance of the completed facility and knowledge of the con- struction may submit the certification to the department. A representative of the department may inspect the completed work in order to determine that the completed work substan- tially adheres to the approved plans and specifications and to the Missouri Clean Water Law and Clean Water Commission regulations. 
(E) The department shall specify in each operating permit the concentration, weight, or both, of each contaminant which may be released. 
(6) Sewer Extensions. (A) Persons who construct sewers tributary to a system 
operated by one (1) of the continuing authorities listed in paragraphs (3)(B)1. or (3)(B)2. will be exempt from the con- struction permit requirements for sewers if the continuing authority administers a permit program which has been approved by the department. 
1. In order to obtain approval of its permit program the continuing authority must submit a written request. The request must include an account of the procedures to be fol- lowed in approving the construction of sewers by others and for handling the design of sewers to be built by its own staff or contractors. The request must include at least the follow- ing: 
A. Standard specifications and typical appurtenance construction details to which all construction will be required to adhere; 
B. A showing that the applicant will engage or employ a sufficient number of professional engineers and other staff qualified to review plans, issue permits, prepare reports, inspect construction, and enforce local and state require- ments for each sewer extension; 
C. A showing that the applicant will engage or employ a sufficient number of persons qualified to supervise con- struction or that the applicant has enforceable ordinances which require construction supervision and subsequent cer- tification by a Missouri professional engineer; and 
D. A showing that the applicant will maintain perma- nent plans of all sewers constructed and maintain records of sewer extension approvals and reports. 
2. The department will review the application for approval and may ask for additional information if necessary to determine compliance with the Missouri Clean Water Law and these regulations. Approval may be granted for a period of up to five (5) years in the applicant’s operating permit. 
(B) Upon completion of construction, and certification by the engineer in accordance with subsection (5)(D), owners or operators of sanitary sewer systems or extensions for which construction permits were issued shall apply for a let- ter of authorization for operation. The system or extension then shall be considered as a part of the treatment facility to which it is tributary for permit purposes. 
(7) Schedules of Compliance. (A) Permits may contain schedules of compliance requiring 
the permittee to take specific steps to achieve expeditious compliance with applicable standards and limitations and other requirements. Schedules of compliance shall require compliance as soon as practicable, but in no case later than an applicable statutory deadline. 

Page 1624 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(B) If any permit allows a time for achieving final compli- ance from the date of permit issuance, the schedule of com- pliance in the permit shall set forth interim requirements and the dates for their achievement. 
(C) Within fourteen (14) days following each interim date and the final date of compliance, the permittee shall provide the Department with written notice of the permittee’s com- pliance or noncompliance with the interim or final require- ment for the dates. 
(D) The Department may modify a schedule of compliance in an issued permit upon request and a showing of justifica- tion by the applicant. In no case shall the compliance sched- ule be modified to extend beyond an applicable statutory treatment deadline.] 
(6) Supervised Programs. (A) Applicability. Continuing authorities listed in paragraphs 
(2)(B) 1., 2., or 3. with at least one (1) existing wastewater treat- ment facility with a design flow one million gallons per day (1 MGD) may be granted supervised program approval by the department. Supervised program approval exempts the permit- tee from the construction permit requirements for collection sys- tem and treatment plant works. 
1. For collection system approval, the program solely applies to sanitary and/or combined sewer lines and appurtenances with- in a defined boundary under the continuing authority’s control that ultimately discharges to a wastewater treatment facility owned by the same continuing authority. 
2. For treatment plant approval, the program solely applies to continuing authorities conducting their own construction that is funded by the entity, in lieu of submitting plans and specifica- tions for expansion or modification of existing treatment facili- ties. Continuing authorities desiring treatment plant approval must also have a collection system authority approved by the department. 
3. If a project is receiving funding from the department under 10 CSR 20-4, the department may require the continuing authority to obtain a construction permit in compliance with 10 CSR 20-4 and 10 CSR 20-8. 
4. If the facility is in noncompliance with the Missouri Clean Water Law, this may be reason for denial, suspension, or termi- nation of the supervised program approval. 
(B) Request Submittal. Authorities requesting supervised pro- gram approval may submit a request to the department with the following information regarding the system, treatment plant, capacity, and current procedures. The department will review the request, supporting documentation, and may ask for additional information if necessary to determine compliance with the Missouri Clean Water Law and these regulations. The depart- ment will inform the permittee in writing of its decision. Approval may be granted for a period of up to five (5) years in the applicant’s operating permit. 
1. General Information Submittal: A. A statement that the continuing authority employs or 
contracts a sufficient number of Missouri registered professional engineers and other staff qualified to review plans, issue permits, prepare reports, inspect construction, and enforce local and state requirements for each sewer extension and treatment plant pro- ject. If the continuing authority engages outside firms, provide a copy of the minimum responsibilities and expectations of the con- sulting engineer and what oversight the continuing authority will have. Reviews must be independent of the designer to avoid con- flicts of interest; 
B. A statement that the continuing authority employs or contracts a sufficient number of persons qualified to supervise construction or that the continuing authority has enforceable ordinances which require construction supervision and subse- quent certification by a Missouri registered professional engi- neer; 
C. A statement on how the continuing authority maintains permanent records of approvals, sewer extensions, and treatment plant construction project and the retention policy for reports and project documentation; and 
D. A copy of the procedures followed in reviewing, approving, and inspecting the construction of collection systems by others and for handling the design and construction of collec- tion systems to be built by its own staff or contractors delineating the responsibilities between the designers and the reviewers must be present. 
2. For Collection System Approval submit the following information: 
A. Standard technical specifications and typical detail drawing, prepared, signed, and sealed by a Missouri registered professional engineer, in accordance with 10 CSR 20-8.110. Standard technical specifications and detail drawings complying with 10 CSR 20-8.120 through 10 CSR 20-8.130, and all other necessary appurtenances; 
B. An engineering report discussing the remaining capac- ity of the existing collection system, including each pump station, and the available capacity of the wastewater treatment facility serving each area. Refer to 10 CSR 20-8.110(4); 
C. A current layout map, or maps, of the collection system showing street names, sewer line material types, sizes, and lengths, manholes, pump stations, force mains, air release valves, and other sewer appurtenances as necessary, or a detailed description of the continuing authority’s mapping system and the procedures for updating the system; 
D. A copy of the enacted ordinance enforcing the standard technical specifications and typical detail drawings. 
3. For Treatment Plant Approval, submit the following information: 
A. A copy of procedures to be followed in reviewing, approving, and inspecting the construction of wastewater treat- ment facilities by others and for retaining as-built plans following completion of the project, prepared by a Missouri registered pro- fessional engineer, in accordance with 10 CSR 20-8.110; 
B. A facility plan discussing existing treatment plant(s), along with a summary of design discussing the remaining capac- ity of each existing wastewater treatment facility. Refer to 10 CSR 20-8.110(5); 
C. Standard specifications and typical appurtenance con- struction details; 
D. Following completion of the project, retain as-builts to be available for review, upon request. 
(C) Operating Permit. Supervised program approval will be granted through the applicant’s operating permit for a period of up to five (5) years. The operating permit may contain additional reporting requirements including, but not limited to, a summary report for an approved period. 
1. Treatment plant authority. A. Antidegradation. Submittal and approval of an anti- 
degradation review is required prior to any construction that will increase facility capacity, add or increase pollutants of concern, or change receiving stream. Refer to section (3) of this rule. 
B. Operating Permit Modifications. Submit applications for operating permit modifications, when applicable, at least one hundred eighty (180) days before the date the facility begins to receive wastewater, unless permission for a later date has been granted by the department. 
C. Technologies not established or discussed in 10 CSR 20-8 are not allowed for the Treatment Plant Approval. 
(D) Summary Report. A report summarizing the construction activities will be contained in the operating permit application renewal for reauthorization. The permittee shall maintain the fol- lowing information at a minimum for the summary report or have available upon department request. 
1. For facilities with Collection System approval: 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1625 

A. Name of sewer extension; B. Length of sewer and force main; C. Capacity of each new or upgraded pump station, if 
applicable; D. Date sewer extension permit is issued; E. Date sewer extension construction is accepted; F. The ultimate receiving wastewater treatment facility; G. The remaining long term average capacity of each 
wastewater treatment facility; and H. Upon request, detailed project information on design 
flow, leakage, deflection, and inspections. 2. For facilities with Treatment Plant approval: 
A. The projects planned, ongoing, or completed; 
B. The remaining long-term average capacity of each treatment facility; 
C. As-builts for new or expanded treatment facilities; and 
D. Documentation and engineering justification of new or expanded treatment facilities of design components, which at a minimum meet the requirements in 10 CSR 20-8, Minimum Design Standards. 
(E) Reauthorization. A request for reauthorization must be submitted at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to expira- tion reaffirming (6)(B) of this rule. The department may conduct a site visit to review the request and summary report prior to reauthorization. 
(7) Operating Permits. (A) Persons who build, erect, alter, replace, operate, use, or 
maintain any water contaminant source, point source, or waste- water treatment facility which discharges to waters of the state shall obtain an operating permit from the department before any discharge occurs. The operating permit shall be issued to the owner and continuing authority. Nondischarging facilities for the treatment or disposal of wastes, wastewater, or residuals shall obtain permits as provided in 10 CSR 20-6.015. 
(B) Applications. 1. An application for an operating permit must be submitted 
on forms provided by the department. The applications may be supplemented with copies of information submitted for other fed- eral or state permits. The application shall include: 
A. A map showing the location of all outfalls, with scale, as well as a flowchart indicating each process which contributes to an outfall; 
B. Appropriate permit fee according to 10 CSR 20-6.011; 
C. An antidegradation review for new and expanding dis- charging facilities; 
D. A geohydrological evaluation conducted by the depart- ment’s Missouri Geological Survey for new and expanded facili- ties; 
E. If appropriate, a variance petition, with the informa- tion detailed in section (14) of this rule; and 
F. Engineering certification that the project was designed to meet the requirements of 10 CSR 20-8 for projects exempted from construction permitting requirements in section (5) of this rule. 
2. All applications must be signed as follows: A. For a corporation, by an individual having responsibil- 
ity for the overall operation of the regulated facility or activity, such as the plant manager, or by an individual having overall responsibility for environmental matters at the facility; 
B. For a partnership or sole proprietorship, by a general partner or the proprietor respectively; or 
C. For a municipal, state, federal, or other public facility, by either a principal executive officer or by an individual having overall responsibility for environmental matters at the facility. 
3. The permittee shall provide written notice to the depart- ment as soon as possible of any planned physical alterations or additions to the permitted wastewater treatment facility. 
(C) Applications for renewal of site-specific operating permits must be received at least one hundred eighty (180) days either before the expiration date of the present site-specific operating permit or the date the facility begins to receive wastewater unless permission for a later date has been granted by the department. The department will not grant permission for applications to be submitted later than the expiration date of the existing permit. 
(D) For facilities seeking coverage under a general operating permit, the application for renewal shall be submitted according to Section 644.051.13, RSMo. 
(E) All reports required by the department shall be submitted and signed by a person designated in paragraph (7)(A)2. of this rule or a duly authorized representative, if— 
1. The representative so authorized is responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge occurs; and 
2. The authorization is made in writing by a person desig- nated in paragraph (7)(A)2. of this rule and is submitted to the department. 
(8) Terms and Conditions of Permits. (A) The following shall be incorporated as terms and conditions of 
all permits: 1. All discharges and [sludge] solids disposal shall be consis- 
tent with the terms and conditions of the permit; 2. The permit may be modified or revoked after thirty (30) days’ 
notice for cause including, but not limited to, the following causes: A. A violation of any term or condition of the permit; B. A misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant 
facts in obtaining a permit; C. A change in the operation, size, or capacity of the permit- 
ted facility; and D. The permit may be modified after proper public notice 
and opportunity for comment when a wasteload allocation study has been completed showing that more stringent limitations are necessary to protect the in-stream water quality; 
3. The permit may not be modified so as to extend the term of the permit beyond five (5) years after its issuance; 
4. Permittees shall operate and maintain facilities to comply with the Missouri Clean Water Law and applicable permit conditions and regulations. [Operators or supervisors of operations at regulat- ed wastewater treatment facilities shall be certified in accor- dance with per 10 CSR 20-9.020(2) and any other applicable state law or regulation. Operators of other wastewater treat- ment facilities, water contaminant source, or point sources, upon request of the Department, shall demonstrate that wastewater treatment equipment and facilities are effectively operated and maintained by competent personnel;] 
5. [For the purpose of inspecting, monitoring, or sam- pling the point source, sludge, water contaminant source, or wastewater treatment facility for compliance with the Clean Water Law and these regulations, authorized representatives of the Department shall be allowed by the permittee, upon presentation of credentials and at reasonable times, to—] The permittee, owner, and continuing authority shall allow the department or an authorized representative (including an autho- rized contractor acting as a representative of the department), upon presentation of credentials to, at reasonable times— 
A. Enter upon permittee’s premises in which a point source, water contaminant source, or wastewater treatment facility is located or in which any records are [required to be] kept [under] accord- ing to the terms and conditions of the permit; 
B. Have access to, or copy, any records [required to be] that are kept [under] according to the terms and conditions of the permit; 
C. Inspect any [monitoring equipment or method required in the permit;] facilities, equipment (including moni- toring and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated 

Page 1626 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
or required under a permit; and 
D. [Inspect any collection, treatment, or discharge facility covered under the permit; and] Sample or monitor for the purposes of assuring permit compliance or as otherwise authorized by the Federal Clean Water Act or Missouri Clean Water Law, any substances or parameters at any location. 
[E. Sample any wastewater or sludge at any point in the collection system or treatment process;] 
6. If the permit is for a discharge from a publicly-owned treat- ment works, the permittee shall give adequate notice to the depart- ment of [any new introduction of pollutants or any substantial change in the character or volume of nondomestic pollutants already being introduced. Notice shall include] the following: 
[A. The origin, quality, and quantity of pollutants to be introduced into the publicly-owned treatment works; and 
B. Any anticipated impact on the quality and quantity of the effluent to be discharged or on the quality or quantity of the sludge to be disposed of by the treatment works;] 
A. Any new introduction of pollutants into the treatment facility from an indirect discharger which would be subject to Sections 301 or 306 of the Federal Clean Water Act if it were directly discharging those pollutants; 
B. Any substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants being introduced into that treatment facility at the time of issuance of the permit; and 
C. For purposes of this subparagraph, adequate notice includes information on the following: 
(I) The quality and quantity of influent introduced into the treatment facility, and 
(II) Any anticipated impact of the change on the quan- tity or quality of effluent to be discharged from the treatment facility; 
7. If the permit is for a discharge from a publicly-owned treat- ment works, the permittee shall be able to identify any introduction of pollutants or substances into the facility that alone or in combina- tion will cause—disruption of the treatment processes, violation of effluent standards [as defined] in their operating permit, violation of water quality standards in the receiving stream as defined in 10 CSR 20-7.031, or classification of the residues of the treatment processes as hazardous waste as defined in 10 CSR 25-4.010. In addition, the permittee shall require any industrial user of the treat- ment [works] facility to comply with the requirements of 10 CSR 20-6.100; 
8. If a toxic effluent standard, prohibition, or schedule of com- pliance is established under Section 307(a) of the Federal Clean Water Act for a toxic pollutant in the discharge of permittee’s facility and the standard is more stringent than the limitations in the permit, then upon notice to the permittee the more stringent standard, prohi- bition, or schedule shall be incorporated into the permit as [one (1) of its conditions] a condition; and 
[9. Facility expansions, production increases, or process modifications which will in a new or substantially different discharge or sludge characteristics must be reported sixty (60) days before the facility or process modification begins. Notification may be accomplished by application for a new permit, or if the discharge does not violate effluent limita- tions specified in the permit, by submission of notice to the Department of the changed discharge; and] 
[10.]9. When a continuing authority under paragraph [(3)](2)(B)1., 2., or 3. is expected to be available for connection [within the next five (5) years], any operating permit issued to a permittee under this paragraph, located within the service area of the paragraph [(3)](2)(B)1., 2., or 3. facility, shall contain the following special condition: [The tributary wastewater flow shall be con- nected to the continuing authority listed in paragraph (3)(B)1. or 2. within ninety (90) days of notice of availability by the continuing authority.] Permittee shall cease discharge by connec- tion to a facility with an area-wide management plan according to 
subsection (2)(B) of this rule within the timeframe allotted by the continuing authority with its notice of its availability. The permit- tee shall obtain departmental approval for closure according to sec- tion (11) of this rule or alternate use of these facilities. 
(B) The permit shall contain effluent limitations, [and] monitoring requirements[. Other], and terms and conditions [shall be incor- porated into permits if the department determines they are] necessary to assure compliance with the Clean Water Law, related regulations or policies of the Missouri Clean Water Commission. 
(9) Prohibitions. No permit shall be issued in the following circum- stances: 
(A) Where the terms and conditions of the permit do not comply with applicable guidelines or requirements, the Missouri Clean Water Law and Clean Water Commission regulations or the Federal Clean Water Act and federal regulations; 
(B) Where the EPA regional administrator has properly objected to the issuance of a permit [by the director]; 
(C) Where the permit conditions cannot ensure compliance with the applicable water quality requirements of all other affected states; (D) [Where, in the judgment of the secretary of the army acting through the appropriate district engineer, anchorage and navigation would be substantially impaired;] Where anchorage and navigation would be substantially impaired based on the judgement of the US Army Corps of Engineer’s district 
engineer; 
(E) For the discharge of any radiological, chemical, or biological warfare agent or high level radioactive waste; 
(F) For any discharge [from a point source] inconsistent with a plan or plan amendment approved under Section 208(b) of the Federal Clean Water Act; or 
(G) To a facility which is a new source or a new discharger, if the discharge from the construction or operation of the facility will— 
1. Cause or contribute to the violation of water quality stan- dards if the [point of] discharge is located in a segment that was an effluent limitation segment, prior to the introduction of the discharge from the new source or [new] discharger; or 
2. Exceed its pollutant load allocation if the discharge is into a water quality limited segment. 
(10) Operating Permit Renewal and Expiration Dates. (A) [The first operating permit issued to new sources and new dischargers will be issued for a period of time sufficient only to allow the completion of construction of the facility, but not to exceed five (5) years, but not less than one (1) year. When all construction has been completed, the first] Missouri State operating permits may be issued for a period not to 
exceed five (5) years. (B) Whenever a release or a potential for release from a point 
source, water contaminant source, or wastewater treatment facility is permanently eliminated, the existing operating permit will be termi- nated [upon verification by the department]. 
[(C) Where a person has the permit responsibility for more than one (1) wastewater treatment facility, water contami- nant source, or point source involving more than one (1) operating permit, the Department may combine the billings by issuing all operating permits with the same expiration date. Each facility shall continue to operate under and be governed by the separate provisions of each individual per- mit. 
(D) When a check used for an application fee is returned to the Department as nonnegotiable, review of the applica- tion shall cease and the applicant be notified. No further action shall be taken on the application until the fees have been resubmitted in the form of a cashier’s check or money order payable to the state of Missouri.] 
[(E)](C) Continuation of Expiring Permits. 1. The terms and conditions of an expired permit are continued 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1627 

automatically pending issuance of a [new] renewed operating per- mit if— 
A. The permittee [has] submitted a timely and sufficient application for a [new] renewed operating permit under this rule; and 
B. The department is unable, through no fault of the permit- tee, to issue a [new] renewed operating permit before the expiration date of the previous permit. 
2. Permits continued under paragraph (10)[(E)](C)1. remain fully effective and enforceable. 
(11) Permits Transferable. (A) Subject to subsection [(3)](2)(A), a construction permit 
and/or operating permit may be transferred upon submission to the department of an application to transfer signed by the existing owner and/or continuing authority and the new owner and/or continuing authority. 
1. Until the time the permit is officially transferred, the original permittee remains responsible for complying with the terms and con- ditions of the existing permit. 
2. To receive a transfer permit, the new owner and/or continu- ing authority must complete an application according to section (4) and/or section (7) of this rule and demonstrate to the department that the new [organization is permanent and will serve as the continuing authority for the operation, maintenance, and modernization of the facility] continuing authority agrees to be responsible for compliance with the permit. 
3. The new owner and/or continuing authority shall be respon- sible for complying with the terms and conditions of the permit upon transfer. 
(B) The department, within thirty (30) days of receipt of the appli- cation, [shall] will notify the new applicant of its [intent] decision to revoke and reissue or transfer the permit. 
(C) For facilities with construction and/or operating permits that the department is unable to reissue the operating permit within thirty (30) days of the transfer application, the construc- tion and/or operating permit may be transferred to the new per- mittee if: 
1. The current permittee notifies the department at least thirty (30) days in advance of the proposed transfer date; 
2. The notice includes a complete application for transfer between the existing and new permittees containing a specific date for transfer of construction and/or permit responsibility, coverage, and liability between them; and 
3. The department does not notify the existing permittee and the proposed new permittee of its decision to revoke and reissue or transfer the operating permit. If no objection is received from the department within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice, the transfer is effective on the date specified in the agreement. 
(12) Closure of Treatment Facilities. (A) Persons who cease operation or plan to cease operation of 
waste, wastewater, and sludge handling and treatment facilities shall close the facilities in accordance with a closure plan approved by the department. 
(B) Closure plans shall address wastewater and sludge removal, dewatering activities, removal of treatment structures, removal of solid waste, or leaving in place as clean fill, site grading and site shaping so that ponding does not occur. 
(C) Closure plans shall be submitted to the department no later than ninety (90) days after ceasing operations. The permit- tee, owner, and\or responsible party shall complete closure activ- ities within the timeframe provided in the closure plan. 
[(B)](D) Operating permits under section [(5)] (7) of this rule or under 10 CSR 20-6.015 are required until all waste, wastewater, [and] wastewater solids/sludges and any solid wastes have been disposed of in accordance with the closure plan approved by the department under subsection [(12)](11)(A) of this rule, and any disturbed areas have been properly stabilized. 
(13) General Operating Permits. (A) The [director] department may issue a general operating 
permit in accordance with the following: 1. The general operating permit [shall be written to] covers 
a category of discharges described in the permit except those covered by [individual] site-specific permits within a geographic area. The area [shall] corresponds to existing geographic or political bound- aries, such as— 
A. Designated planning areas under Sections 208 and 303 of the Federal Clean Water Act; 
B. City, county, or state political boundaries, or special sewer districts [chartered by the state]; 
C. State highway systems; and 
D. Any other appropriate division or combination of bound- aries; and 
2. The general operating permit [shall be written to] regu- lates a category of point sources if the sources all— 
A. Involve the same or substantially similar types of opera- tions; 
B. Discharge the same types of wastes/wastewaters; 
C. Require the same effluent limitations or operating condi- tions; 
D. Require the same or similar monitoring; and 
E. Are controlled more appropriately, in the opinion of the [director] department, under a general operating permit than under [individual] site-specific permits. 
(B) General operating permits may be issued, modified, revoked, and reissued or terminated in accordance with applicable require- ments of this regulation. To be included under a general operating permit, [a permittee must] submit an application on forms sup- plied by the department. 
(C) The [director] department may require any person autho- rized by a general operating permit to apply for and obtain a[n indi- vidual] site-specific operating permit. Any interested person may petition the [director] department to take action under this subsec- tion. Cases where a[n individual] site-specific operating permit may be required to include, but are not limited to, the following: 
1. The discharge(s) is a significant contributor of pollution which impairs the beneficial uses of the receiving [stream] water; 
2. The discharger is not in compliance with the conditions of the general operating permit; and 
3. A Water Quality Management Plan containing requirements applicable to these point sources is approved by the department. 
(D) Any owner/[operator]continuing authority authorized by a general operating permit may request to be excluded from the cov- erage of the general operating permit by applying for a[n individual] site-specific permit. [As indicated in section (2) of this rule, the owner/operator shall submit, to the director, an applica- tion with reasons supporting the request. The request shall be granted by issuing any individual permit if the reasons cited by the owner/operator are adequate to support the request.] 
1. When a[n individual] site-specific operating permit is issued to an owner/[operator]continuing authority otherwise subject to a general operating permit, the applicability of the general operating permit [to the individual operating permittee] is terminated automatically on the effective date of the [individual] site-specific permit. 
2. A source excluded from a general operating permit solely because it already has a[n individual] site-specific permit may request that the [individual] site-specific permit be revoked and that it be covered by the general operating permit, if it meets all the requirements for coverage. [Upon revocation of the individual permit, the general permit shall apply to the source. The source shall be included under the general permit only if it meets all the requirements for coverage under the permit.] 
(E) The department may require any person applying for a site-specific permit to obtain a general operating permit. 

Page 1628 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
[(14) Permit by Rule. The Department shall petition the Clean Water Commission to reopen this rule for public review and comment on a five- (5-) year interval. 
(A) Hydrostatic Testing. Persons discharging water used for the hydrostatic testing of new petroleum-related oil and gas pipelines and storage tanks in the state of Missouri may discharge to waters of the state without first obtaining a permit if the discharge is de minimis (less than one thousand (<1,000) gallons) or the person takes the following steps: 
1. Notification. The owner/operator must notify the Department in writing of its intent to conduct hydrostatic test discharge(s) under this rule at least thirty (30) days prior to the first such discharge. This requirement may be met by a one- (1-) time annual notification. Notice shall specify the source of water to be used in the hydrotest and shall identify the location(s) of the pipeline(s) and/or tank(s) to be tested. 
2. Filing fee. Persons who intend to discharge in accor- dance with section (14) of this rule must pay a filing fee [of twenty-five dollars ($25) to the Department with their noti- fication above. 
3. Discharge limits. The discharge must meet the follow- ing limits: <10 mg/l total petroleum hydrocarbons, <100 mg/l total suspended solids, and equal to or between 6.0 and 9.5 standard units pH. 
4. Sampling and testing requirements. One (1) grab sample shall be taken per discharge during the first sixty (60) minutes of the discharge. The sample shall be analyzed for the pollutants limited by this rule. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with 10 CSR 20- 7.015(9)(A). Total discharge volume shall be documented for each hydrostatic test discharge. 
5. Analytical report. The owner/operator of the pipeline(s) and/or storage tank(s) on which the hydrostatic tests are performed shall submit an annual report summariz- ing each discharge, including date, time, test location, ana- lytical results, and total discharge volume, in gallons, by October 28, of each year. 
6. Exception reporting. If any of the sampling results from the hydrostatic test discharge show any violations of the following discharge limitations , written notification shall be made to the Department within five (5) days of notifica- tion of analytical results. Notification shall indicate the date(s) of sample collection, the analytical results, and a statement concerning the revisions or modifications in man- agement practices that are being implemented to address the violation of the limitation that occurred. 
A. <10 mg/l total petroleum hydrocarbons. B. <100 mg/l total suspended solids. C. pH equal to or between 6.0 and 9.5 standard pH 
units. 7. General requirement. The hydrostatic testing water 
shall not contain dyes or have a visible sheen indicating the presence of petroleum products. 
8. Any person who irrigates wastewater from a hydro- static test may do so under this rule if the notification, filing fee, and annual reporting requirements of paragraphs (4)(A)1.,- 2., and 4. are met and the irrigation does not result in any discharge to waters of the state. The quality of the irrigated wastewater is not required to meet the limits stated in paragraph (14)(A)6. of this rule. 
9. The quality of wastewater from a hydrostatic test that is discharged directly to the Mississippi or Missouri Rivers must meet the limits stated in paragraph (14)(A)6. of this rule with the exception of pH which shall be within a range between 6 and 10. 
(B) The department may require a permit for these dis- charges if it determines that requiring a permit may better protect the quality of waters of the state. 
(C) The person(s) discharging under this rule may apply for a permit at any time. 
(D) This rule does not supersede nor eliminate liability for compliance with county and other local ordinances. 
(E) Persons discharging under this rule are not required to obtain a separate permit to construct and operate an oil- water separator to aid in meeting limits for hydrostatic wastewater. 
(F) The department shall maintain records open to the pub- lic on all persons claiming coverage under permit by rule. Appeals of permits in accordance with 10 CSR 20-6.020(6) may be received by the Department up to thirty (30) days from the date the Department received notice from the dis- charger.] 
(14) Hydrostatic Testing. Persons discharging water used for the hydrostatic testing of new pipelines and storage tanks are exempt from permitting if the discharge is de minimis (less than one thousand (<1,000) gallons) or the person takes the following steps: 
(A) Discharge Limits. The discharge must meet the following limits: 
1. 100 mg/L total suspended solids; 2. pH: 
A. Missouri or Mississippi Rivers, in the range from 6.0 to 10.0 standard units; or 
B. All other waters, in the range from 6.5 to 9.0 standard units; 
3. 0.32 mg/l ethylbenzene; 4. 0.005 mg/L benzene; 5. 1.0 mg/L toluene; and 6. 10.0 mg/L xylene. 
(B) Sampling and testing requirements. One (1) grab sample shall be taken per discharge during the first sixty (60) minutes of the discharge and be analyzed for the pollutants listed in (1)(A) of this rule as well as total discharge volume in gallons per day. 
(C) Exception reporting. If any of the sampling results from the hydrostatic test discharge show any exceedance of (1(A) lim- its, provide written notification, including the date of the sample collection, the analytical results, and a statement concerning the modifications in management practices that are being imple- mented to address the violation within five (5) days of notification of analytical results to the department. 
(D) The hydrostatic testing water shall not contain dyes or have a visible sheen indicating the presence of petroleum products. 
(E) Any person who irrigates wastewater from a hydrostatic test may do so under this rule if the irrigation does not result in any discharge to waters of the state. The quality of the irrigated wastewater is not required to meet the limits in (1)(A). 
(F) Persons discharging under this exemption are not required to obtain a separate permit to construct and operate an oil-water separator to aid in meeting limits for hydrostatic wastewater. 
(15) Variance Request Process. (A) Water Quality Standards Variance. Any person, permittee, 
or group of permittees seeking a variance shall file a petition for variance with the department according to 40 CFR 131.14, as published August 21, 2015 by the EPA Docket Center, EPA West 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20004. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. 
(B) Non-water Quality Standard Variance. Any person, per- mittee, or group of permittees seeking a variance shall file a peti- tion for variance with the department according to Section 644.061, RSMo. 
(C) Provisional Variance. 1. A provisional variance is a short term, time limited 
reprieve from limitations, rules, standards, requirements, or order of the director because of conditions beyond the reasonable control 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1629 

of the permittee, would result in an arbitrary or unreasonable hardship, and the compliance costs are substantial and reason- ably certain. 
2. In accordance with 644.062, RSMo, any person or per- mittee may apply for a provisional variance for limitations, rules, standards, requirements, or orders from the department pur- suant to 644.006 through 644.141, RSMo. A provisional variance may not be granted under this regulation for limitations, rules, standards, requirements, or orders from the department pur- suant to other statutes. The application for a provisional vari- ance needs to include information in accordance with subsection (15)(A) of this rule. 
3. The provisional variance is issued by the department and may be retroactively applied upon permittee request. If a provi- sional variance is granted, notice will be given using the same method prescribed for operating permits issued by the depart- ment in 10 CSR 20-6.020. The department will promptly notify the applicant of the decision in writing and file the decision with the Missouri Clean Water Commission. Granting of a provision- al variance is documentation of the department’s enforcement discretion. There is no public notice period prior to issuance of a provisional variance. If retroactively granted, the permittee shall submit appropriate modified reports (such as discharge monitor- ing or those prescribed in a permit) within twenty (20) days of the provisional variance issuance date. 
4. Provisional variances will not be granted for the follow- ing: 
A. In the department’s judgement said variance would endanger public health, cause significant harm to aquatic life or wildlife, result in damage to property, or other demonstrable and measurable harm to downstream interests; 
B. In anticipation of Federal approval of any changes to a state water quality standard; 
C. From the requirement to obtain a permit for an activ- ity, in accordance with 10 CSR 20-6 and Section 644, RSMo; 
D. To allow an activity which would otherwise require a permit to begin before the department issues or denies a permit; or 
E. To allow a facility to exceed a permit limitation while the department considers an application to modify the permit limitation. 
5. A provisional variance may be issued for up to forty-five (45) days, and may be extended once for up to an additional forty-five (45) days. The appropriate length of the provisional variance will be determined at the discretion of the department. 
A. Provisional variances may be issued for periods less than forty-five (45) days, or terminated earlier than the length of time specified at issuance, at the permittee’s request (assuming that the variance is no longer essential for compliance). 
B. The provisional variance may be granted subject to conditions determined necessary by the department. In order to qualify for an extension, a demonstration that the conditions under which the previous variance were granted still exist or are substantially similar. 
C. In no case shall a provisional variance be granted to the same facility for more than ninety (90) days within the same calendar year. 
6. Should a facility apply for multiple provisional variances or a single variance for the maximum ninety (90) days allowed, a long term plan to eliminate the need for relief from the same limit, rule, standard, requirement, or order, subject to the restrictions set forth above, needs to accompany the request in order for the application to be considered complete. 
7. If the provisional variance is issued for a delay of imple- mentation of limitations, rules, standards, requirements, or orders from the department to correct a violation, section 644.042, RSMo, requires the applicant post a performance bond or other security to assure completion of the work covered by the 
variance. The proof of financial responsibility may be in the form of a surety bond, CD, or irrevocable letter of credit and be sub- ject to the following: 
A. The bond is signed by the applicant as principal, and by a corporate surety licensed to do business in the state of Missouri; 
B. The bond remains in effect until the terms and condi- tions of the variance are met and rules and regulations promul- gated pursuant thereto are complied with; 
C. It is on file with the department; D. It is made payable to the department; and E. If the bond, CD, or letter of credit is cancelled by the 
issuing agent, submit new proof of financial responsibility within thirty (30) days of cancellation, or the provisional variance will be cancelled. 
AUTHORITY: sections 640.710 and 644.026, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed June 6, 1974, effective June 16, 1974. For inter- vening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, Leasue Meyers, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. Comments may be sent with name and address through e-mail to lea- sue.meyers@dnr.mo.gov. Public comments must be received by August 23, 2018. The public hearing is scheduled for 10 AM, on August 15, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 6—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-6.011 Fees. The department is amending the purpose and section (1) to delete text, add (1)(G), and renumber this section; delete (2)(A) and renumber this section; delete duplicative language in (3)(A), delete (3)(B) and (3)(C), and renumber this section, and remove reference to Appendix A. 
PURPOSE: The department is amending this rule to comply with Executive Order 17-03 under the Red Tape Reduction Initiative and to improve clarity of the rule, reduce redundancy, errors, and unneeded or overly burdensome requirements, address conflicts that exist between the regulation, statutes, and other regulations, and remove references to Appendix A that was removed in 2014. 
PURPOSE: This regulation explains how the Department of Natural Resources implements fees authorized by the Missouri Clean Water Law. It sets the procedures for collection of fees from permit holders. Fees are collected for state operating permits, several permits, and construction permits. [An appendix to the rule reflects the range of fees that is established under the Missouri Clean Water Law.] 

Page 1630 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(1) Fees—General. (A) [Until December 31, 2014, all persons who build, 
erect, alter, replace, operate, use, or maintain wastewater treatment facilities shall pay the appropriate fees as desig- nated in sections 644.051 to 644.057, RSMo.] Pursuant to section 644.057, RSMo, beginning on January 1, 2015, [such per- sons] all persons who build, erect, alter, replace, operate, use, or maintain wastewater treatment facilities shall pay the appropriate fees prescribed by this rule [(see Appendix A)]. 
(B) Definitions. 1. Adjusted design flow. The actual average wastewater flow 
from a human sewage treatment system. If the average flow is sixty percent (60%) or less than the system’s design flow, the average flow may be substituted for the design flow when calculating the permit fee on human sewage treatment facilities [in Appendix A of this rule]. 
2. Definitions as set forth in the Missouri Clean Water Law and 10 CSR 20-2.010 [shall] apply to those terms when used in this reg- ulation. 
[3. Human sewage. Human excreta and wastewater, including bath and toilet waste, residential laundry waste, residential kitchen waste, and other similar waste from household or establishment appurtenances.] 
[4.]3. Industrial process wastewater. This term as used in sec- tion 644.052, RSMo means any water, including storm water, that is regulated under 10 CSR 20-6.200, during manufacturing or process- ing, which comes into direct contact with or results from the produc- tion or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished prod- uct, by-product, or waste product. 
[5.]4. Privately-owned treatment works. A treatment works serving a residential area, restaurant, commercial concern, or other operation that only produces domestic sewage as defined in section 701.025, RSMo. 
(C) [The fees referenced in subsection (1)(A) shall be paid by check, money order, or credit card, made payable to the state of Missouri.] Submit fees associated with this rule to the Missouri Department of Natural Resources. In the event a check used for the payment of operating fees is returned to the department marked insufficient funds, the person forwarding the check shall be given fifteen (15) days to correct the insufficiency. If payment has not been corrected after fifteen (15) days, the person may be referred to the attorney general’s office and assessed late penalties, pursuant to section 644.055, RSMo. When a check used for the payment of a construction fee is returned to the department marked insufficient funds, review of the application shall cease and the applicant shall be notified. If the insufficiency is not corrected after ten (10) days, the application shall be returned as incomplete. 
[(D) Annual operating fees shall be submitted to: Department of Natural Resources, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 and con- struction fees shall be submitted with the application for the construction permit to Department of Natural Resources, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102.] 
[(E)](D) Each payment shall identify the following: National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit number, payment period, and applicant, or the permittee name and address. Persons who own or operate more than one (1) facility may submit one (1) check to cover all annual permit fees, but are responsible for submitting the appropriate information to allow proper credit of each permit account. 
[(F)](E) Annual fees shall be paid in full on their due date [as defined in section (2) and subsections (3)(A) and (4)(A)]. Permittees who only discharge intermittently, seasonally, or for a short period of time must pay the entire annual fee. Fees are annual fees and may not be prorated. In the event the discharge is eliminat- ed, the permittee is responsible for requesting termination of the per- mit. When permits are revoked or denied, the annual fees are forfeit- 
ed. It is unlawful to discharge water contaminants into waters of the state without a permit. 
[(G)](F) Annual fees are the responsibility of the permittee. Failure to receive a statement due to mailing errors, change of address, ownership changes or other reason(s) is not an excuse for failure to remit the fees. Penalties shall be charged as provided in section 644.055, RSMo. 
(G) Where a person has the permit responsibility for more than one (1) operating permit, the department may combine the billings by issuing all operating permits with the same expiration date. Each facility will continue to operate under and be gov- erned by the separate provisions of each individual permit. 
(2) Fees—Amounts. 
[(A) Persons with operating permits, including but not lim- ited to site-specific permits, general permits, or permits by rule issued pursuant to this chapter shall pay fees pursuant to subsections (B) to (F) of this section. Persons with a sewer service connection to public sewer systems owned or operated by a city, public sewer district, public water dis- trict, or other publicly owned treatment works shall pay fees pursuant to subsection (G) of this section. Persons request- ing a permit modification shall pay fees pursuant to subsec- tion (H) of this section. Persons requesting water quality cer- tification shall pay fees pursuant to subsection (I) of this section. Persons requesting an anti-degradation review shall pay fees pursuant to subsection (J) of this section. Persons requesting a construction permit shall pay fees pursuant to subsection (K) of this section.] 
[(B)](A) A privately owned treatment works or an industry which treats only human sewage shall annually pay a fee based upon the design flow of the facility as follows: 
1. One hundred fifty dollars ($150) if the design flow is less than five thousand (5,000) gallons per day; 
2. Three hundred dollars ($300) if the design flow is equal to or greater than five thousand (5,000) gallons per day but less than ten thousand (10,000) gallons per day; 
3. Six hundred dollars ($600) if the design flow is equal to or greater than ten thousand (10,000) gallons per day but less than fif- teen thousand (15,000) gallons per day; 
4. One thousand dollars ($1,000) if the design flow is equal to or greater than fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons per day but less than twenty-five thousand (25,000) gallons per day; 
5. One thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) if the design flow is equal to or greater than twenty-five thousand (25,000) gallons per day but less than thirty thousand (30,000) gallons per day; 
6. Three thousand dollars ($3,000) if the design flow is equal to or greater than thirty thousand (30,000) gallons per day but less than one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons per day. 
7. Four thousand dollars ($4,000) if the design flow is equal to or greater than one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons per day but less than two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) gallons per day; or 
8. Five thousand dollars ($5,000) if the design flow is equal to or greater than two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) gallons per day. [(C)](B) Persons who produce industrial process wastewater which requires treatment and who apply for or possess a site-specific permit 
shall annually pay— 1. Five thousand dollars ($5,000) if the industry is a class IA 
concentrated animal feeding operation as defined by the commission; or 
2. For facilities issued operating permits based upon categorical standards pursuant to the Federal Clean Water Act and regulations implementing such act: 
A. Four thousand two hundred dollars ($4,200) if the design flow is less than one (1) million gallons per day; or 
B. Five thousand dollars ($5,000) if the design flow is equal to or greater than one (1) million gallons per day. 
[(D)](C) Persons who apply for or possess a site-specific permit 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1631 

solely for industrial storm water shall pay an annual fee of: 1. One thousand eight hundred dollars ($1,800) if the design 
flow is less than one (1) million gallons per day; or 2. Two thousand eight hundred dollars ($2,800) if the design 
flow is equal to or greater than one (1) million gallons per day. [(E)](D) Persons who produce industrial process wastewater who are not included in subsections [(2)(C)] (2)(B) or [(2)(D)] (2)(C) of 
this section shall annually pay— 1. One thousand eight hundred dollars ($1,800) if the design 
flow is less than one (1) million gallons per day; or 2. Three thousand dollars ($3,000) if the design flow is equal to 
or greater than one (1) million gallons per day. [(F)](E) Persons who apply for or possess a general permit or per- 
mit by rule shall pay— 1. For the discharge of storm water from a land disturbance 
site— A. Five hundred dollars ($500) if the site is at least one (1) 
acre and less than five (5) acres; B. Six hundred dollars ($600) if the site is equal to or greater 
than five (5) acres but less than ten (10) acres; C. Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750) if the site is equal to or 
greater than ten (10) acres but less than twenty-five (25) acres; D. One thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) if the site is equal to or greater than twenty-five (25) acres but less than one hun- 
dred (100) acres; E. Three thousand dollars ($3,000) if the site is equal to or 
greater than one hundred (100) acres but less than five hundred (500) acres; or 
F. Five thousand dollars ($5,000) if the site is equal to or greater than five hundred (500) acres; and 
G. Any permit issued to a public agency or private party for multiple sites shall pay a single fee based upon the estimated acreage of all the sites as follows: 
(I) One thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) if the sites are less than one hundred (100) acres; 
(II) Three thousand dollars ($3,000) if the sites are equal to or greater than one hundred (100) acres but less than five hundred (500) acres; or 
(III) Five thousand dollars ($5,000) if the sites are equal to or greater than five hundred (500) acres; 
2. One hundred dollars ($100) annually for the operation of a chemical fertilizer or pesticide facility; 
3. For the operation of an animal feeding operation or a concen- trated animal feeding operation— 
A. Five thousand dollars ($5,000) per year for a national pol- lutant discharge elimination system permit or a Missouri state oper- ating permit for a class IA concentrated animal feeding operation as defined by the commission; 
B. Four hundred fifty dollars ($450) per year for a national pollutant discharge elimination system permit for a class IB concen- trated animal feeding operation as defined by the commission; 
C. Three hundred fifty dollars ($350) per year for a national pollutant discharge elimination system permit for a class IC or class II concentrated animal feeding operation as defined by the commis- sion; 
D. Three hundred dollars ($300) per year for a Missouri state operating permit for a class IB concentrated animal feeding operation as defined by the commission; or 
E. One hundred fifty dollars ($150) per year for a Missouri state operating permit for a class IC or class II concentrated animal feeding operation as defined by the commission; 
4. Two hundred fifty dollars ($250) annually for the discharge of storm water from a municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4); 5. Three hundred dollars ($300) annually for the operation of an 
aquaculture facility; 6. For discharging publicly owned treatment works which treats 
only human sewage shall annually pay the fee in subsection [(G)] (F) based upon the number of service connections to the facility; 
7. One hundred fifty dollars ($150) annually for a permit by rule and for a pesticide applicator permit. 
8. Two hundred dollars ($200) annually for a permit for the dis- charge of process water or storm water, potentially contaminated by activities not included in paragraphs 1. to 7. of this subsection. 
[(G)](F) Persons with a direct or indirect sewer service connection to a public sewer system owned or operated by a city, public sewer district, public water district, other publicly owned treatment works, or any district formed pursuant to the provisions of section 30(a) of Article VI of the Missouri Constitution shall pay an annual fee per water service connection as provided in this subsection. Customers served by multiple water service connections shall pay such fee for each water service connection, except that no single facility served by multiple connections shall pay more than a total of seven hundred dollars ($700) per year. The fees provided for in this subsection shall be collected by the agency billing such customer for sewer service and remitted to the department. The fees may be collected in month- ly, quarterly, or annual increments, and shall be remitted to the department no less frequently than annually. The fees collected shall not exceed the amounts specified in this subsection and, except as provided in paragraph 7. of this section, shall be collected at the specified amounts unless adjusted by the commission in rules. The annual fees shall be— 
1. For customers of sewer systems that serve more than thirty- five thousand (35,000) customers, forty-eight cents ($0.48); 
2. For customers of sewer systems that serve equal to or less than thirty-five thousand (35,000) but more than twenty thousand (20,000) customers, sixty cents ($0.60); 
3. For customers of sewer systems that serve equal to or less than twenty thousand (20,000) but more than seven thousand (7,000) customers, seventy-two cents ($0.72); or 
4. For customers of sewer systems that serve equal to or less than seven thousand (7,000) customers, eighty cents ($0.80); 
5. Three dollars and forty-two cents ($3.42) for commercial or industrial customers not served by a public water system as defined in Chapter 640, RSMo; 
6. Three dollars ($3) per water service connection for all other customers with water service connections of less than or equal to one (1) inch excluding taps for fire suppression and irrigation systems; 
7. Eleven dollars ($11) per water service connection for all other customers with water service connections of more than one (1) inch but less than or equal to four (4) inches, excluding taps for fire suppression and irrigation systems; or 
8. Twenty-nine dollars ($29) per water service connection for all other customers with water service connections of more than four (4) inches, excluding taps for fire suppression and irrigation systems. 
[(H)](G) For the purpose of permit modification fees, non-sub- stantive changes are those listed as minor modifications in 40 CFR section 122.63. Persons requesting modifications to state operating permits that charge a service connection fee shall pay two hundred dollars ($200). Persons requesting a modification to an operating permit shall pay: 
1. One hundred dollars ($100) for name changes, address changes, or other non-substantive changes, or for a modification of a general permit; or 
2. A fee equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the annual oper- ating fee assessed for the facility for other changes; 
[(I)](H) Persons requesting water quality certifications in accor- dance with Section 401 of the Federal Clean Water Act shall pay a fee of— 
1. One hundred fifty dollars ($150) for a project that requires a Finding of No Significant Impact or other documentation pursuant to the federal National Environmental Policy Act, but does not require an environmental impact statement; or 
2. One thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) for a project that does require an environmental impact statement, pursuant to the fed- eral National Environmental Policy Act. Applicants shall submit the standard application form for a Section 404 permit as administered 

Page 1632 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or similar information required for other federal licenses and permits, except that the fee is waived for water quality certifications issued to and accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for activities authorized pursuant to a general permit or nationwide permit issued pursuant to section 404 of the [f]Federal Clean Water Act. 
[(J)](I) Persons applying for an anti-degradation review shall pay a fee as follows: 
1. Two hundred fifty dollars ($250) for an anti-degradation review or a water quality review analysis for an existing wastewater treatment plant that will be upgraded; 
2. Five hundred dollars ($500) for an anti-degradation review for a new wastewater treatment plant if the design flow is less than one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons per day; or 
3. One thousand dollars ($1,000) for an anti-degradation review for a new wastewater treatment plant if the design flow is equal to or more than one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons per day; 
[(K)](J) Persons applying for a construction permit shall pay fee as follows. The applicant shall pay only the highest appropriate fee pursuant to paragraphs 1. to 3. of this subsection, regardless of the extent of additional planned construction as part of the same applica- tion. 
1. One thousand dollars ($1,000) for a construction permit for a wastewater treatment plant if the design flow is less than five hun- dred thousand (500,000) gallons per day; 
2. Three thousand dollars ($3,000) for a construction permit for a wastewater treatment plant if the design flow is equal to or more than five hundred thousand (500,000) gallons per day; or 
3. Three hundred dollars ($300) for a construction permit for a sewer extension of more than one thousand feet (1,000 ft) in length or have two (2) or more lift stations. 
[(L)](K) Persons applying for a variance shall pay a fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250). 
(3) Operating Fees. (A) All persons who are subject to fees under section 644.052.2, 
644.052.4, or 644.052.5, RSMo, shall remit their first annual fee with their original application and pay an annual fee each year on the anniversary date of their permit. Permittees with permits in effect at the time these sections become effective shall remit annual fees on the anniversary date of the permit. [Persons whose permit is renewed during the duration of these fees shall submit a renewal application one hundred eighty (180) days before their permit expires, but the annual fee shall be paid on the anniversary date.] The permit issue date that was in effect on October 1, 1990 shall be the anniversary date during the effective period of section 644.052, RSMo. 
[(B) Persons with a direct or indirect sewer service con- nection to a public sewer system owned or operated by a city, public sewer district, public water district, or other pub- licly-owned treatment works, shall pay an annual fee per water service connection. Customers served by multiple water service connections shall pay such fee for each water service connection, except that no single facility served by multiple connections shall pay more than seven hundred dol- lars ($700) per year. The fees provided for in this subsection shall be collected by the agency billing such customer for sewer service and remitted to the department. The fees may be collected in monthly, quarterly, or annual increments, and shall be remitted to the department no less frequently than annually. 
(C) Five percent (5%) of the fees collected pursuant to subsections (2)(B) and (C) of this rule shall be retained by the city, public sewer district, public water district, or other publicly-owned treatment works as reimbursement of billing and collection expenses.] 
[(D)](B) All persons who require permits, other than a general permit, for facilities that do not normally discharge such as land 
application facilities, sludge disposal facilities, agrichemical facili- ties, and no-discharge facilities are subject to fees as follows: 
1. Fees are based on the design flow of the wastewater being handled; and 
2. Fees for sludge or solids disposal facilities are based on the combined total design flow of the wastewater treatment facilities from which the sludge or solids are removed. 
AUTHORITY: section 644.054, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Emergency rule filed July 27, 1990, effective Sept. 12, 1990, expired Jan. 10, 1991. Original rule filed July 17, 1990, effective Dec. 31, 1990. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, Attn: Jane Davis, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. Comments may be sent with name and address through e-mail to jane.davis@dnr.mo.gov. Public comments must be received by August 23, 2018. The public hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 6—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 10 CSR 20-6.015 No-Discharge Permits. The Clean Water 
Commission is amending sections (2), (4), and (5). 
PURPOSE: This rule sets forth the requirements and process of application for non-discharging facility permits and the terms and conditions of the authorizations. 
(2) General. (A) All persons who [build, erect, alter, replace,] operate, use, 
or maintain water contaminant sources, point sources facilities for storage, treatment, land application, or disposal of process wastes which are [designed, constructed and] operated so as not to dis- charge to waters of the state or will have infrequent discharges shall apply for [construction and operating] permits unless exempted under section (3) of this rule. 
(4) Permits. 
[(A) Permits required by this rule shall be issued in accor- dance with permit application and processing procedures contained in 10 CSR 20-6.010, 10 CSR 20-6.011, 10 CSR 20-6.020 and 10 CSR 20-6.200. 
(B) Design Standards. 1. Facilities shall be constructed and operated in accor- 
dance with the rules under 10 CSR 20 Chapter 7 and Chapter 8. Exceptions or deviations may be considered by the Department when determined appropriate based upon site-specific factors. 
2. Where standards are not available, an engineering report addressing all available environmental data concerning 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1633 

potential pollutants and toxic substances shall be submitted in accordance with 10 CSR 20-8.020(3)(D), 10 CSR 20- 8.020(15)(F), 10 CSR 20-8.110 and 10 CSR 20-7.031(4)(B). 
3. Pollutant limitations for land application of sludge or biosolids shall conform to10 CSR 20-7.015(9)(F). 
4. Potential pollutant movement to groundwater shall not exceed the limitations in the water quality standards rule under 10 CSR 20-7.031 and the effluent rule under 10 CSR 20-7.015. 
5. Groundwater monitoring may be required, where determined appropriate by the Department, at land disposal sites or land application sites that receive pollutants in excess of beneficial use limitations or has potential for excess migra- tion of pollutants to waters of the state. Monitoring wells shall be installed in accordance with monitoring well construction standards under 10 CSR 23, Chapter 4. 
6. Hazardous waste shall not be land applied or dis- posed except in accordance with the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Law and regulations under 10 CSR 25.] 
[(C)](B) Permit Conditions. 1. The department shall develop permit conditions containing 
limitations, monitoring, reporting, and other requirements to protect soils, crops, surface waters, groundwater, public health, and the environment. 
2. The department may establish standard permit conditions and best management practices for land application facilities by following the public participation procedures under 10 CSR 20-6.020. 
3. The department may establish a general permit for a category of similar facilities in accordance with 10 CSR 20-6.010(13). 
4. Noncontiguous land application sites may be included in the operating permit for a process waste generator or contract hauler as determined appropriate by the department. 
5. Whenever feasible or appropriate, all operating permit requirements under 10 CSR 20 Chapter 6 rules shall be incorporated into a single operating permit for each operating location. 
6. Applications for permits shall include an engineer’s seal affixed to all engineering plans and engineering certifications. 
[7. A water balance barrel test conducted in accordance with 10 CSR 20-8.020(16) shall be required for lagoons or earthen impoundments receiving industrial waste, and engi- neering certification of the constructed seal shall be submit- ted as part of the operating permit application.] 
(5) Closure of Waste Storage Structures. (A) No-discharge facilities that cease operation, or plan to close 
lagoons and other waste storage structures, shall comply with 10 CSR 20-6.010(12) as well as the following requirements: 
[1. Facilities which cease operation shall continue to maintain a valid operating permit until all lagoons and waste storage structures are properly closed according to a closure plan approved by the Department; and] 
[2.]1. Facilities that are exempted from permits under this rule and that cease operation shall either close the waste storage struc- tures in accordance with subsection (5)(B) of this rule or [shall] con- tinue to maintain all storage structures so that there is not a discharge to waters of the state. 
(B) Closure Requirements. Lagoons and waste storage structures shall be closed by removal and land application of all wastewater and sludges, or in accordance with an alternate closure plan approved by the department. The removed wastewater and sludges shall be land applied at normal agricultural rates for nitrogen fertilizer not to exceed the maximum nitrogen utilization of the vegetation grown and shall be applied at controlled rates so that there will be no discharge to waters of the state. After removal and proper land application of wastewater and sludge, the earthen basins may be— 
1. Demolished by removing the berms, grading, and revegeta- tion of the site so as to provide erosion control; or 
2. Left in place for future use as a farm pond or similar uses or reserved for future use as a waste storage structure. To prevent dam- 
age to the bottom seal due to drying and weed growth, earthen basins shall be refilled with fresh water as soon as possible, and water depths of three feet (3') or more should be maintained. 
AUTHORITY: section 644.026, RSMo [Supp. 1997] 2016. Original rule filed July 15, 1991, effective Jan. 13, 1992. Amended: Filed June 1, 1995, effective Jan. 30, 1996. Amended: Filed Nov. 3, 1997, effective July 30, 1998. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, Attn: Greg Caldwell, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. Comments may be sent with name and address through email to greg.caldwell@dnr.mo.gov. Public comments must be received by August 23, 2018. The public hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 6—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-6.020 Public Participation, Hearings, and Notice to Governmental Agencies. The commission is removing paragraph (1)(C)4., replacing language in section (2) with reference to federal regulations, amending language in section (3) to reference the Missouri Sunshine Law and modifying language in sections (5), (6), and (7) to better reflect statutory requirements pertaining to appeals. 
PURPOSE: This amendment updates the rule to be more consistent with statutory requirements regarding appeals of permit conditions, abatement orders, permit denials and variances. The amendment also removes unneeded or overly burdensome requirements pertain- ing to the public notice of certain general permits. 
(1) Public Participation. (C) Public Notice for General Permits. 
1. Public notice of newly created, or the reissuance of an exist- ing statewide general permit shall be prepared by the department in accordance with subsections (1)(B) and (D) of this rule. 
2. Public notification of the issuance of any general permit to an applicant will not be required, except for the following general per- mits: 
A. Airports; B. Chemical manufacturing; C. Fabricated structured metal; D. Foundries; E. Limestone and rock quarries; F. Lubricant manufacturing; G. Petroleum storage greater than fifty thousand (50,000) 
gallons; and H. Wood treaters. 
3. For issuance of the first general permit for any newly con- structed water contaminant source, point source, or wastewater treat- ment facility, public notification shall occur in accordance with sub- sections (1)(B) and (C) of this rule. 

Page 1634 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
[4. Reissuance of general permits to individual facilities shall not require public notification unless the facility was found to have been in significant noncompliance during the time of the previous permit.] 
[5.]4. As new general permits are created, the need for an indi- vidual facility public notification process shall be determined and identified in the general permit. 
(D) The public notice of permit pending will contain at least the following: 
1. Name, address, telephone number of the department, and any other places at which interested persons may obtain further informa- tion, request copies of the draft permit and the fact sheet, and inspect and copy related forms and documents; 
2. Name and address of the applicant and address of the dis- charger if different from the applicant; 
3. Brief description of the applicant’s activities or operations which result in the discharge or potential discharge described in the application; 
4. Name of watercourse to which the applicant will discharge, a description of the location of the discharge and designation of the discharge as new or existing; 
5. A statement of the tentative determination to issue a permit; 
6. A brief description of the procedures for making final deter- mination, including the thirty (30)-day comment period and any other means by which interested persons may influence or comment upon the making of the determinations; and 
7. The name and address of the office processing the applica- tion. 
(2) Notice to Other Governmental Agencies. [The department shall send a copy of the draft permit and accompanying fact sheet the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the Missouri Department of Conservation and to all affected states.] Notices to govern- mental agencies shall conform with the requirements in 40 CFR 124.59 “Conditions requested by the Corps of Engineers and other government agencies,” January 4, 1989, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Washington, DC 20408. 
[(A) Each affected state shall be given an opportunity to submit written recommendations to the department and to the regional administrator which the department may incor- porate into the permit if issued. If the department does not incorporate these recommendations, it shall send a written explanation to the affected states of the reasons for failing to accept them. 
(B) If the appropriate district engineer of the Corps of Engineers advises the director, in writing, during the public comment period that anchorage and navigation of any of the waters of the United States would be substantially impaired by the granting of a permit, the permit shall be denied and the applicant so notified. If the district engineer advises the director that imposing specified conditions upon the permit is necessary to avoid any substantial impairment of anchor- age or navigation, then the director shall include the speci- fied conditions of the permit. Review or appeal of a denial of a permit or of conditions specified by the district engineer shall be made through the applicable procedures of the Army Corps of Engineers.] 
(3) Public Access to Information. (A) [Applications, draft permits, supporting documents 
and reports upon those documents shall be available to the public, except for those portions determined to be confiden- tial.] Any information or records submitted or obtained pursuant to Chapter 644, RSMo, may be subject to public disclosure pur- suant to Chapter 610, RSMo. Information other than effluent data, support documents or reports contained in any issued permit or doc- ument in the water [pollution control] protection program may be 
made confidential upon a showing that methods or processes entitled to protection as trade secrets would be revealed if the information were made public. The [director] department shall make the final determination of confidentiality. 
(B) The department shall provide for public inspection and copying of information relating to these documents. 
(5) Time Limits for Appeals for Abatement Orders, Permit Denials and Variances. 
(C) The appeals previously referenced in subsection (5)(A) of this rule may be made by the applicant, permittee, person named in the order or any other person with an interest which is or may be adverse- ly affected. The appeal shall be filed with the [commission secre- tary of the Clean Water Commission, P.O. Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102] Administrative Hearing Commission, 131 W. High St., PO Box 1557, Jefferson City, MO 65101 and shall be received by the [Clean Water] Administrative Hearing Commission prior to expiration of the thirty (30)-day appeal period as computed in subsection (5)(A). The appeal shall be a contested case and shall be conducted under section 644.066, RSMo. 
(6) Time Limits for Appeals of Conditions in Issued Permits. (D) The appeals referenced previously in subsection (6)(A) of this rule may be made by the applicant, permittee, or any other person with an interest which is or may be adversely affected. The appeal shall be filed with the [commission secretary of the Clean Water Commission, P.O. Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102] Administrative Hearing Commission, 131 W. High St., PO Box 1557, Jefferson City, MO 65101 and shall be received by the [Clean Water] Administrative Hearing Commission prior to expiration of the thirty (30)-day appeal period as computed in subsection (5)(A). The appeal shall be a contested case and shall be conducted under section 
644.066, RSMo. 
(7) Appeals made under sections (5) and (6) of this rule shall [be—] conform to the requirements of the Administrative Hearing Commission regulation 1 CSR 15-3.350, effective March 30, 2017. 
[(A) An original filed with the secretary of the commission; (B) Signed by the appellant or appellant’s legal counsel; (C) Clearly identified as an appeal; (D) Comprised of the following information: 
1. Full name, address and telephone number of the appellant and any attorney representing the appellant; 
2. Reasons why the appellant believes the actions of the department or commission should be reversed or modified, including the identification and copy of the order or decision made by the director or commission which gives rise to the appeal; 
3. Suitable space in the caption for the commission sec- retary to affix a case number; and 
4. Acknowledgment that the matter will automatically be set for hearing. 
(8) Appeals filed under sections (5) and (6) of this rule may contain a request for stay of the conditions appealed. 
(9) The commission shall construe the provisions of sections (5)-(7) of this rule liberally if the appellant has prepared the complaint without legal counsel. 
(10) The secretary of the commission shall serve notice of an appeal filed under sections (5) and (6) on the director and all parties to the appeal by delivery or certified mail.] 
AUTHORITY: section 644.026, RSMo [Supp. 1997] 2016. Original rule filed June 19, 1974, effective June 29, 1974. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1635 

PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, Attn: Tim Bull, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. Comments may be sent with name and address through email to tim.bull@dnr.mo.gov. Public comments must be received by August 23, 2018. The public hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 6—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 10 CSR 20-6.070 Groundwater Heat Pump Operating Permits. 
The Clean Water Commission is amending sections (1)–(5). 
PURPOSE: This rule sets forth the requirements and process of application for operating permits and the terms and conditions for the permits. 
(1) Permits—General Information. (A) All persons who build, erect, alter, replace, operate, use, or 
maintain existing or proposed groundwater heat pump injection/with- drawal wells that inject more than six hundred thousand (600,000) British thermal units (BTUs) per hour (also termed as fifty (50) tons of capacity) shall apply to the department for the permits required by [section 577.155, RSMo] Missouri Clean Water Law and these regulations. [The department shall issues these permits in order to enforce section 577.155, RSMo and the Missouri Clean Water Law and regulations.] 
(B) The following are exempt from permit regulations: 1. Groundwater heat pump injection wells designed for up to eight (8) single family residents where the combined injection rate is 
less than six hundred thousand (600,000) BTUs per hour; 2. All other groundwater heat pump injection wells that have a combined injection rate of less than six hundred thousand (600,000) BTUs per hour unless there is a potable water well, not owned by the owner of the heat pump, within one thousand feet (1000') which uses 
the same aquifer, strata or depth as a source; 3. Any sampling well constructed in conjunction with any injec- 
tion/withdrawal well; and 4. Heat pumps constructed in such a way so as to not utilize 
groundwater, such as lateral line systems. (C) Nothing in these regulations shall prevent the department from 
taking action where the department finds that any activity exempted under subsection (1)(B) causes pollution of waters of the state, places, or permits to be placed, a water contaminant in a place where it is reasonably certain to cause pollution of any waters of the state or the activity otherwise violates [section 577.155, RSMo,] the Missouri Clean Water Law or these regulations. 
(D) Drillers of injection/withdrawal wells shall comply with 10 CSR 23-5.060 Construction Standards for Open Loop Heat Pump Systems That Use Groundwater and 10 CSR 23-3 Well Construction Code. 
(E) Within ninety (90) days of notification by the department, 
[O]owners or operators of injection wells exempted from the permit requirements of subsection (1)(B) are required[, upon notification by the department,] to submit completed injection well inventory information on forms supplied by the department. [The completed form shall be returned to the department no later than ninety (90) days following the receipt of notification.] 
(2) Application. (A) An application for an original operating permit or renewal of 
a former operating permit shall be made by letter for each injec- tion/withdrawal well and shall include each of the following. The application may be supplemented with copies of information submit- ted for other federal or state permits. [Each application must be accompanied by a filing fee of seventy-five dollars ($75).] 
[(B) Each application shall contain the following:] 
1. Appropriate application fee as listed in 10 CSR 20-6.011; 
[1.]2. Name and address of the company(s), organization(s), owner(s) or operator of the injection/withdrawal well; 
[2.]3. Description of structure or process, or both, that will uti- lize the injection/withdrawal well; 
[3.]4. Estimated depth of well, aquifer to be used (or anticipat- ed aquifer), casing and related well construction data as recommend- ed by the office of the state geologist; 
[4.]5. Exact location of the proposed injection withdrawal well and any other wells that exist within two thousand feet (2000') shown on a seven and one-half (7 1/2) minute United States Geological Survey (USGS) topographic quadrangle map[. This map shall also indicate the depth of each well]; 
6. The depth of each well indicated on the map; 
[5.]7. Maximum, minimum and average volume of water that will be injected or withdrawn on a daily basis; 
[6.]8. Maximum, minimum and average temperature differen- tial of injected/withdrawn water; 
[7.]9. Computations showing how the temperature differentials were calculated; 
[8.]10. General specifications of the installation including the heat exchange unit, pump and other structures; 
[9. Application fee of seventy-five dollars ($75). When a check used for an application is returned to the department as nonnegotiable, review of the application shall cease and the applicant shall be notified. No further action shall be taken on the application until the fees have been resubmitted in the form of a cashier’s check or money order payable to the State of Missouri;] 
[10.]11. If the injection/withdrawal well is located within one thousand feet (1000') of any potable water well, [the application shall include] a registered professional geologist’s or registered pro- fessional geologic engineer’s recommendation and justification on the number and location of sampling wells if any are deemed neces- sary, and an estimate of the effect, in degrees Fahrenheit (F°), on all wells located within one thousand feet (1000'); and 
[11.]12. A copy of the certified heat pump well drillers’ report to the Department of Natural Resources’ [Division of Geology and Land] Missouri Geological Survey. 
[(C)](B) All applications must be signed as follows: 1. For a corporation—by an officer of at least the level of plant 
manager; 2. For a partnership or sole proprietorship—by a general partner 
or the proprietor; or 3. For a municipal, state, federal or other public facility—by 
either a principal executive officer or ranking public official or his/her designee. 
[(D)](C) All other reports required by the department shall be signed by a person designated in subsection (2)[(C)](B) of this rule or a duly authorized representative, where— 
1. The representative so authorized is responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the injection/withdrawal occurs; and 

Page 1636 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
2. The authorization is made in writing by a person designated in subsection (2)[(C)](B) of this rule and is submitted to the director. [(E)](D) Any changes in the written authorization which occur after the issuance of a permit shall be reported to the department by submitting a new written authorization which meets the requirements 
of subsection (2)[(D)](C) of this rule. [(F)](E) If an application is incomplete or otherwise deficient, the 
applicant [shall] will be notified of the deficiency and processing of the application may be discontinued until the applicant has corrected all deficiencies. 
[(G)](F) [Applications shall be mailed] Mail applications to Water Pollution Control Program, P.O. Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. 
(3) Operating Permits. (A) [Persons who build, erect, alter, replace, operate, use 
or maintain groundwater heat pump injection/withdrawal wells that are not exempted shall obtain an operating permit from the department.] In order to obtain an operating permit for groundwater heat pump injection/withdrawal wells, applica- tions for an operating permit shall be submitted to the depart- ment in accordance with the timeframes listed in section 644.051, RSMo and 10 CSR 20-6.010. 
(B) [Applications for an original operating permit must be received by the department at least one hundred twenty (120) days before construction of the injection/withdrawal well begins. Applications shall include the earliest date on which the injection/withdrawal is to begin. The department will issue or deny the permit within one hundred twenty (120) days of receipt of the complete application as speci- fied in section (2). No person shall operate an injection/with- drawal well without a valid operating permit, unless s/he is exempted under subsection (1)(B).] Prior to issuance of an operating permit, the department shall fulfill the public notice requirements as outlined in 10 CSR 20-6.020. 
[(C) Applications for the renewal of operating permits must be received at least one hundred twenty (120) days before the expiration date of the present operating permit. The department will issue or deny the permit within one hundred twenty (120) days of receipt of the complete appli- cation as specified in section (2). 
(D) The public notice requirements at 10 CSR 20-6.020 shall apply.] 
(4) Terms and Conditions of Permit. (A) The following shall be incorporated as terms and conditions of 
all permits: 1. All injection/withdrawals shall be consistent with the terms 
and conditions of the permit; 2. The permit may be modified or revoked after reasonable 
notice for causes including, but not limited to: A. A violation of any term or condition of the permit; B. A misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully all relevant 
facts in obtaining a permit; C. A change in the operation, size or capacity of the permit- 
ted facility; or D. An increase of more than ten degrees Fahrenheit (10°F) 
in any nearby potable water well that was in existence when the orig- inal operating permit was issued. 
3. The injection/withdrawal permit may be issued for a period up to five (5) years[. The permit may not be modified so as to extend the term of the permit beyond five (5) years after its issuance], in accordance with section 644.051, RSMo and 10 CSR 20-6.010; 
4. Permittees shall operate and maintain facilities to comply with [section 577.155, RSMo,] the Missouri Clean Water Law, corresponding regulations and applicable permit conditions; 
5. For the purpose of inspecting for compliance with the Clean 
Water Law and these regulations, authorized representatives of the department shall be allowed by the permittee, upon presentation of credentials and at reasonable times, to— 
A. Enter upon permittee’s premises in which a groundwater heat pump injection/withdrawal well is located or in which any records are [required to be] kept under terms and conditions of the permit; 
B. Have access to, or copy, any records [required to be] kept under terms and conditions of the permit; 
C. Inspect any sampling wells, monitoring equipment or method [required] listed in the permit; and 
D. Sample for permit compliance; 6. Facility expansions, production increases or process modifi- 
cations which will result in a new or substantially different injec- tion/withdrawal must be reported sixty (60) days before the facility or process modification begins. Notification may be accomplished by application for a new permit, or by submission of notice to the department; 
7. Copies of well location, driller’s logs, sample logs, casing schedule, volume of water, temperature, water quality and other information developed or determined for the completed installation shall be sent to the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (DNR), Water Pollution Control Program and [to the Missouri DNR, Division of Geology and Land] Missouri Geological Survey; 
8. Measure and record [M]maximum, minimum and average water temperature [measurements shall be made and recorded] monthly for each injection/withdrawal well and each monitoring well; 
9. Measure and record [M]maximum, minimum and average injection/withdrawal rates [shall be measured and recorded] monthly; 
10. Measure and record [T]total dissolved solids [shall be measured and recorded] monthly for each injection/withdrawal well and each monitoring well; and 
11. A yearly report [shall be submitted] to the [agencies listed in paragraphs (4)(A)4. And 7.] Department of Natural Resources’ Water Protection Program and Missouri Geological Survey, which contains the following information: 
A. Volume of water withdrawn and injected; B. Temperature records for each monitoring well; and C. Copies of water quality analyses performed. 
(5) Prohibitions. (A) No permit shall be issued [where the terms and condi- 
tions of the permit do not comply with applicable guidelines or requirements of section 577.155, RSMo the Missouri Clean Water Law and corresponding regulations or the Federal Clean Water Act and federal regulations.]: 
1. Where the terms and conditions of the permit do not com- ply with applicable guidelines or requirements of the Missouri Clean Water Law and corresponding regulations or the Federal Clean Water Act and federal regulations; 
[(B)]2. [No permit shall be issued w]Where the permit con- ditions do not ensure compliance with the applicable water quality requirements of any other affected states[.]; 
[(C)]3. [No permit shall be issued f]For the discharge of any pollutant, except thermal discharges; those pollutants contained in the withdrawal water may be reinjected[.]; 
[(D)]4. [No permit shall be issued f]For the discharge of any radiological, chemical or biological warfare agent or radioactive waste[.]; and 
[(E)]5. [No permit shall be issued f]For the construction or operation of a new injection/withdrawal well which could degrade the usefulness of water withdrawn from earlier permitted wells. 
(6) Permits Transferable. (A) Subject to section (3), an operating permit may be transferred 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1637 

upon submission to the department of an application to transfer signed by a new owner. Until, such time as the permit is officially transferred, the original permittee remains responsible for complying with the terms and conditions of the existing permit. 
(B) The department, within thirty (30) days of receipt of the appli- cation, shall notify the new applicant of its intent to revoke and reis- sue or transfer the permit. 
AUTHORITY: section [577.155] 644.026, RSMo [1994] 2016. Original rule filed Nov. 10, 1980, effective April 11, 1981. Amended: Filed March 9, 1984, effective Oct. 1, 1984. Amended: Filed March 1, 1996, effective Nov. 30, 1996. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, Attn: Jacob Faulkner, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. Comments may be sent with name and address through email to Jacob.faulkner@dnr.mo.gov. Public comments must be received by August 23, 2018. The public hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 6—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-6.090 Class III Mineral Resources Injection/Production Well Operating Permits. The Clean Water Commission is amending sections (1)–(6) and (8). 
PURPOSE: This regulation controls the construction and operations of mineral resources injection/production wells. 
(1) Permits—General. (A) This rule [shall apply] applies to Class III injection/produc- 
tion wells used for the extraction of minerals including: 1. Sulfur mining by the Frasch process; 2. In-situ production of uranium or other metals. This category 
includes only in-situ production from ore bodies which have not been conventionally mined; 
3. In-situ combustion of fossil fuel; fossil fuels include coal, tar sands, oil shale, and any other fossil fuel which can be mined by this process; and 
4. Solution mining of salts or potash. (C) All persons who build, erect, alter, replace, operate, use, or 
maintain existing or proposed Class III injection/production wells shall apply to the department for applicable permits [required by these regulations] using application forms provided by the depart- ment. [The department shall issues these permits in order to enforce the Missouri Clean Water Law and regulations.] 
(D) Nothing in these regulations shall prevent the department from taking action where the department finds that any activity that places, or permits to be placed, a water contaminant where it is reasonably certain to cause pollution of any waters of the state, or the activity otherwise violates Chapter 644, RSMo, the Missouri Clean Water 
Law, or these regulations. (G) Applicants shall keep records of all data used to complete per- 
mit applications and any supplemental information submitted under these regulations for a period extending from the date the application is signed to the date the permit expires for at least three (3) years. [The records shall be maintained at least three (3) years from the date the application is signed.] 
(2) Application. (A) An application for an operating permit shall be made for each 
injection/production well including each of the following items. The application may be supplemented with copies of information submitted for other federal or state permits. 
[(B) Each application shall contain the following:] 1. [Name and address of the companies, organization(s), owner(s) or operators of the proposed well, ownership sta- tus and status as a federal, state, private or other entity] All 
items listed in 10 CFR 144.31(e); [2. The activities conducted by the applicant which 
require the applicant to obtain permits under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) program under the Clean Water Act or the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program under the Clean Air Act; 
3. Name, mailing address and location of the facility for which the application is submitted; 
4. Up to four (4) standard industrial classification (SIC) codes which best reflect the principal products or services provided by the facility; 
5. A listing of all permits or construction approvals received or applied for under any of the following programs: A. Hazardous Waste Management program under 
RCRA; B. UIC program under the Safe Drinking Water Act; C. NPDES program under the Clean Water Act; D. PSD program under the Clean Air Act; E. Nonattainment program under the Clean Air Act; F. National Emission Standards for Hazardous 
Pollutants (NESHAPS) preconstruction approval under the Clean Air Act; 
G. Dredge and fill permits under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act; or 
H. Other relevant environmental permits, including state permits;] 
[6.]2. Description of the process that will be used for the min- eral extractions, including injection/withdrawal procedures; 
[7.]3. Estimated depth of the well, casing lengths and weights, intervals to be cemented, and related well construction data as recommended by the office of the state geologist; 
[8. Exact location of the well including a legal descrip- tion to the nearest section line as determined by a registered surveyor, a narrative description using locally recognized fea- tures and an accompanying topographic or similar map extending one (1) mile beyond the boundary of the facility property depicting the facility and each of its intake and dis- charge structures, each of its treatment, storage or disposal facilities, each well where fluids from the facility are injected underground and those wells, springs, surface water bodies and drinking water wells listed in public records or otherwise known to the applicant within one-quarter (1/4) mile of the facility property boundary; 
9. A brief description of the nature of the business; ] 
[10.]4. Maximum and average volume of injected fluids and injection pressure that will be used on a daily basis; 
[11.]5. [Application fee of seventy-five dollars ($75). When a check used for an application is returned to the 

Page 1638 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
department as nonnegotiable, review of the application shall cease and the applicant shall be notified. No further action shall be taken on the application until the fees have been resubmitted in the form of a cashier’s check or money order payable to the state of Missouri] Appropriate application fee as listed in 10 CSR 20-6.011; 
[12.]6. Recommendation and justification on the number and location of sampling wells by a registered professional engineer or a qualified geologist as defined by sections 256.501 and 256.503, RSMo; 
[13.]7. Where injection is into a formation which contains water with less than ten thousand milligrams per liter (10,000 mg/l) total dissolved solids (TDS), monitoring wells shall be [completed into the injection zone and into any underground sources of drinking water above the injection zone which could be affected by the mining operation. These wells shall be locat- ed in a fashion as to detect any excursion of injection fluids, process by-products or formation fluids outside the mining area or zone. If the operation may be affected by a subsi- dence or catastrophic collapse, the monitoring wells shall be located so that they will not be physically affected;]: 
A. Completed into the injection zone and into any under- ground sources of drinking water (USDW) above the injection zone which could be affected by the mining operation; 
B. Located in a fashion as to detect any excursions of injection fluids, process by-products, or formation fluids outside the mining area or zone; and 
C. Located as not to be physically affected by a subsidence or catastrophic collapse; 
[14.]8. Where injection is into a formation which does not con- tain water with less than ten thousand (10,000) mg/l TDS, no moni- toring wells are necessary in the injection zone; 
[15.]9. Where the injection wells penetrate an underground source of drinking water (USDW) in an area subject to subsidence or catastrophic collapse, an adequate number of monitoring wells shall be [completed into the USDW to detect any movement of injected fluids, process by-products or formation fluids into a USDW. The monitoring wells shall be located outside the physical influence of the subsidence or catastrophic col- lapse;]: 
A. Completed into the USDW to detect any movement of injected fluids, process by-products, or formation fluids into a USDW; and 
B. Located as not to be physically affected by a subsidence or catastrophic collapse; 
[16.]10. In determining the number, location, construction, and frequency of sampling of the monitoring wells, consider the follow- ing criteria [shall be considered]: 
A. Population relying on the USDW affected or potentially affected by the injection operation; 
B. Proximity of the injection operation to points of withdraw- al of drinking water; 
C. Local geology and hydrology; 
D. Operating pressures and whether a negative pressure is being maintained; 
E. Nature and volume of the injected fluid, the formation water, and the process by-products; and 
F. Injection well density; [17.]11. Map(s) describing an area of review for each Class III 
injection/production well or group of wells. The area of review shall be determined by a registered professional engineer or a qualified geologist as defined by sections 256.501 and 256.503, RSMo. The area of review [shall be] is defined as that area the radius of which is determined by the lateral distance from a Class III injection/pro- duction well or perimeter of a group of wells in which the pressure in the injection zone may cause the migration of injection or forma- tion, or both, fluid into an USDW or into an improperly constructed, plugged or abandoned well or test hole. 
A. The radius of the area of review may be calculated using a mathematical model (for example, modified Thesis equation) [and shall be calculated] for an injection time period at least equal to the expected life of the well(s). The owner or operator must demon- strate to the director that the mathematical model used and the cal- culated area of review are appropriate for the known hydrologic prop- erties of the underlying formations. 
B. A fixed radius around the well or the perimeter of a group of wells of not less than one-half (1/2) mile may be used. In deter- mining the fixed radius, the following factors shall be taken into con- sideration: chemistry of injected and formation fluids, hydrogeology, population and groundwater use and dependence, and historical prac- tices in the area. 
C. If the area of review is determined by a mathematical model pursuant to subparagraph (2)(B)8.A., the permissible radius is the result of the calculation even if it is less than one-half (1/2) mile. 
D. Nothing in this section [shall] will prevent the director from imposing alternate areas of review when geologic or hydrologic conditions render a calculated or fixed area a potential threat to an underground source of drinking water; 
[18.]12. Submit with the application [A]a mapped and tabu- lated inventory of all known water supply, injection/production, abandoned and test wells, including field names or numbers and locations of the wells, public water systems, within the area of review and a separate tabulation of all the wells, which penetrate the injec- tion zone listing each well’s type, construction method, date drilled, location, depth, and record of plugging or completion, or both, [shall be submitted with the applications and shall include] including a description of all corrective action(s) proposed to be per- formed to render wells penetrating the injection zone sealed, plugged, or otherwise impervious to the migration of fluids into or between well bores, USDWs, or different aquifers. The applicant is responsible for the inventory and corrective action requirements of this section and shall extend every reasonable effort to locate all wells within the area of review of the applicant well(s); 
[19.]13. A plan for plugging and abandonment. Where the plan meets the requirements of this paragraph, the director [shall] will incorporate it into the permit as a condition. Where the director’s review of an application indicates that the permittee’s plan is inade- quate, the director [shall] will require the applicant to revise the plan, prescribe conditions meeting the requirements of this para- graph, or deny the application. For purposes of this paragraph, tem- porary intermittent cessation of injection operations is not abandon- ment; 
[20.]14. Prior to granting approval for the plugging and aban- donment of a Class III well, the director [shall] will consider the fol- lowing information: 
A. The type and number of plugs to be used; 
B. The placement of each plug, including the elevation of the top and bottom; 
C. The type, grade, and quantity of cement to be used; and 
D. The method of placement of the plugs; [21.]15. The permittee is required to maintain financial respon- 
sibility and resources to close, plug, and abandon the underground injection operation in a manner prescribed by the director. The per- mittee must show evidence of financial responsibility to the director by the submission surety bond or other adequate assurance such as financial statements or other materials acceptable to the director; 
[22.]16. Maps and cross-sections indicating the vertical limits of all USDWs within the area of review, their position relative to the injection formation, and the direction of water movement, where known, in every underground source of drinking water which may be affected by the proposed injection; 
[23.]17. Maps and cross-sections detailing the geologic struc- ture of the local area; 
[24.]18. Generalized map and cross-sections illustrating the regional geologic setting; 
[25.]19. Qualitative analysis and ranges in concentrations of all 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1639 

constituents of injected fluids. The applicant may request confiden- tiality as specified in subsection (1)(E). If the information is propri- etary, an applicant, in lieu of the ranges in concentrations, may choose to submit maximum concentrations which shall not be exceeded. In this case the applicant shall retain records of the undis- closed concentrations and provide them upon request to the director as part of any enforcement investigation; 
[26.]20. Proposed formation testing program to obtain the information required by paragraph (2)(I)4.; 
[27.]21. Proposed stimulation program; 
[28.]22. Schematic or other appropriate drawings of the surface and subsurface construction details of the well; 
[29.]23. Plans, including maps, for meeting the monitoring requirements of subsection (4)(D); 
[30.]24. Expected changes in pressure, native fluid displace- ment, and direction of movement of injection fluid; 
[31.]25. Contingency plans to cope with all shut-ins or well failures so as to prevent the migration of contaminating fluids into the USDW; 
[32.]26. A certificate that the applicant has assured, through a performance bond or other appropriate means, the resources neces- sary to close, plug, or abandon the well as required by paragraph (2)(B)19.; 
[33.]27. The corrective action proposed to be taken under para- graph (2)(B)18.; 
[34.]28. Where the injection zone is a formation which is nat- urally water-bearing, the following information concerning the injec- tion zone shall be determined or calculated for new Class III wells or projects: 
A. Fluid pressure; B. Fracture pressure; and C. Physical and chemical characteristics of the formation flu- 
ids; [35.]29. Where the injection formation is not a water-bearing 
formation, only the information in subparagraph (2)(B)34.B. must be submitted; 
[36.]30. Where the permittee becomes aware that s/he failed to submit any relevant facts in a permit application, or has submitted incorrect information in a permit application or in any report to the director, the permittee shall promptly submit the facts or informa- tion; and 
[37.]31. Data sufficient to allow the department to carry out aquifer exemption procedures under the Safe Drinking Water Act, UIC program. The information shall be sufficient to demonstrate that the aquifer is expected to be mineral or hydrocarbon producing. Information for the proposed project, such as a map and general description of the mining zone, general information on the min- eralogy and geochemistry of the mining zone, analysis for the amenability of the mining zone to the proposed mining method, and a timetable of planned development of the mining zone shall be con- sidered by the director. 
[(C)](B) All applications must be signed as follows: 1. For a corporation—by an officer of at least the level of plant 
manager; 2. For a partnership or sole proprietorship—by a general partner 
or the proprietor; or 3. For a municipal, state, federal, or other public facility—by 
either a principal executive officer or ranking public official or his/her designee. 
[(D)](C) All other reports required by the department shall be signed by a person designated in subsection (2)[(C)](B) of this rule or a duly authorized representative, where— 
1. The representative so authorized is responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the injection/withdrawal occurs; and 
2. The authorization is made in writing by a person designated in subsection (2)[(C)](B) of this rule and is submitted to the director. [(E)](D) Any changes in the written authorization which occur 
after the issuance of a permit shall be reported to the department by submitting a new written authorization which meets the requirements of subsection (2)(C[D]) of this rule. 
[(F)](E) If an application is incomplete or otherwise deficient, the applicant [shall] will be notified of the deficiency, and processing of the application may be discontinued until the applicant has corrected all deficiencies. 
[(G)](F) Any person signing a document under subsection (2)(C) or (D) shall make the following certification: 
I certify under penalty of law that I have personally exam- ined and am familiar with the information submitted in this document and all attachments and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the information is true, accu- rate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the pos- sibility of fine and imprisonment. 
[(H)](G) [Applications shall be mailed] Mail applications to Water Pollution Control Program, P[.]O[.] Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. 
[(I)](H) Prior to granting approval for the operation of a Class III well, the director [shall] will consider the following information: 
1. All available logging and testing data on the well; 2. A satisfactory demonstration of mechanical integrity; 3. The anticipated maximum pressure and flow rate at which the 
permittee will operate; 4. The results of the formation testing program; 5. The actual injection procedures; and 6. The status of corrective action on defective wells in the area 
of review. 
(3) Operating Permits. (A) [Persons who build, erect, alter, replace, operate, use 
or maintain Class III injection/production wells shall obtain an operating permit from the department.] In order to obtain an operating permit for Class III injection/production wells, application for an operating permit shall be submitted to the department in accordance with the timeframes listed in section 644.051, RSMo and 10 CSR 20-6.010. 
[(B) Applications for an original operating permit must be received by the department at least sixty (60) days before construction of the well begins. Applications shall include the earliest date on which injection/production is to begin. The department will issue or deny the permit within sixty (60) days of receipt of the complete application as specified in section (2). No person shall operate an injection/produc- tion well without a valid operating permit. If the department fails to issue or deny the permit within the allotted time, the applicant may request a hearing before the Missouri Clean Water Commission. The commission may either require the department to issue or deny the permit at, or within, a spec- ified time following the hearing or extend the permit review period another sixty (60) days following the hearing. 
(C) Applications for the renewal of operating permits must be received at least sixty (60) days before the expiration date of the present operating permit. The department will issue or deny the permit within sixty (60) days of receipt of the application.] 
[(D)](B) The director may issue a permit on an area basis, rather than for each well individually, provided that the permit is for injec- tion wells— 
1. Described and identified by location in permit application(s) if they are existing wells, except that the director may accept a single description of wells with substantially the same characteristics; 
2. Located within the same well field, facility site, reservoir, project, or similar unit in the same state; [and] 
3. Operated by a single owner or operator[.]; [(E)]4. Area permits [shall] will specify— 

Page 1640 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
[1.]A. The area within which underground injections are authorized; and 
[2.]B. The requirements for construction, monitoring, reporting, operation, and abandonment for all wells authorized by the permit. 
[(F)]5. [The a]Area permits may authorize the permittee to construct and operate, convert, or plug and abandon wells within the permit area provided— 
[1.]A. The permittee notifies the director at a time as the per- mit requires; 
[2.]B. The additional well satisfies the criteria in subsection (3)(D) and meets the requirements specified in the permit under sub- section (3)(E); and 
[3.]C. The cumulative effects of drilling and operation of additional injection wells are considered by the director during eval- uation of the area permit application and are acceptable to the direc- tor. 
[(G)](C) If the director determines that any well constructed pur- suant to subsection (3)(F) does not satisfy any of the requirements of paragraphs (3)(F)1. and 2., the director may modify or terminate the permit or take enforcement action. If the director determines that cumulative effects are unacceptable, the permit may be modified or terminated. 
(4) Terms and Conditions of Permits. (A) The following shall be incorporated as terms and conditions of 
all permits: 1. All operations shall be consistent with the terms and condi- 
tions of the permit [and shall comply with the Clean Water Law; corresponding regulations and applicable permit condi- tions]; 
2. The permit may be modified or revoked after reasonable notice for causes including, but not limited to: 
A. Material and substantial alterations or additions to the per- mitted facility or activity which occurred after permit issuance, which justify the application of permit conditions that are different or absent in the existing permit; 
B. New information received by the director, including infor- mation indicating that cumulative effects on the environment are unacceptable; 
C. The standards or regulations on which the permit was based have been changed by promulgation of amended standards or regulations or by judicial decision after the permit was issued; 
D. Good cause, as determined by the director, exists for mod- ification of a compliance schedule, such as an act of God, strike, flood, or materials shortage or other events over which the permittee has little or no control and for which there is no reasonably available remedy; and 
E. Notification of a proposed transfer of the permit has been received by the director; 
3. Suitability of the facility will not be considered at the time of permit modification or revocation and reissuance unless new infor- mation or standards indicate that a threat to human health or the environment exists which was unknown at the time of permit issuance; 
4. The permit may be issued for a period of up to five (5) years in accordance with section 644.051, RSMo and 10 CSR 20-6.010. [The permit may not be modified so as to extend the term of the permit beyond five (5) years after its issuance.] If the permittee wishes to continue an activity regulated by the permit after the expiration date of the permit, the permittee must apply for and obtain a new permit prior to the expiration date of the permit in effect; 
5. The director may terminate a permit during its term or deny a permit renewal application for the following causes: 
A. Noncompliance by the permittee with any condition of the permit; 
B. The permittee’s failure in the application or during the per- 
mit issuance process to disclose fully all relevant facts or the per- mittee’s misrepresentation of any relevant facts at any time; or 
C. A determination that the permitted activity endangers human health or the environment and can only be regulated to acceptable levels by permit modification or termination; 
6. For the purpose of inspecting for compliance with the Clean Water Law and these regulations, authorized representatives of the department shall be allowed by the permittee, upon presentation of credentials and at reasonable times, to— 
A. Enter upon permittee’s premises in which Class III injec- tion/production well is located or in which any records are [required to be] kept under terms and conditions of the permit; 
B. Have access to or copy, any records [required to be] to be kept under terms and conditions of the permit; 
C. Inspect any sampling wells, monitoring equipment, or method [required] listed in the permit; and 
D. Sample for permit compliance; 7. Facility expansions, production increases or process modifi- 
cations which will result in a new substantially different operation must be reported sixty (60) days before the facility or process modi- fication begins. Notification may be accomplished by application for a new permit or by submission of notice to the department; 
8. Copies of well location, driller’s logs, sample logs, casing schedule, volume of water, temperature, water quality, cement records, and other information developed or determined for the com- pleted installation shall be sent to the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, Water Pollution Control Program and to the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, Division of Geology and Land Survey; 
9. Measure and record [M]maximum and average injection/withdrawal volumes and pressures [shall be measured and recorded] semi-monthly; 
10. Measure and record [T]total dissolved solids [shall be measured and recorded] semi-monthly for each injection/produc- tion well and each monitoring well; 
11. Submit [A]a quarterly report [shall be submitted] to the agencies listed in paragraph (4)(A)8. which contains the following information: 
A. Volume and pressure of fluids injected and withdrawn; and 
B. Copies of water quality analyses performed; and 12. Information on compliance and noncompliance shall be sub- 
mitted by the permittee as follows: A. [Reports of] No later than thirty (30) days following 
each compliance schedule date, submit in writing compliance or noncompliance with, or any progress reports on, interim and final requirements contained in any compliance schedule pertaining to this permit [shall be submitted no later than thirty (30) days fol- lowing each schedule date. The permittee shall report any noncompliance which may endanger health or the environ- ment, including information which indicates that any conta- minant may cause an endangerment to a USDW, or noncom- pliance with a permit condition or malfunction of the injec- tion system which may cause fluid migration into or between USDWs. This information shall be provided orally within twenty-four (24) hours from the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances. A written submission also shall be provided within five (5) days of the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances. The written submis- sion shall contain a description of the noncompliance and its cause, the period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times and if the noncompliance has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue, and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccur- rence of the noncompliance; and] 
B. Within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the circumstances, report orally any noncompliance which may endanger health or the environment, including information 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1641 

which indicates that any contaminant may cause an endanger- ment to a USDW, or noncompliance with a permit condition or malfunction of the injection system which may cause fluid migra- tion into or between USDWs. 
C. Within five (5) days of becoming aware of the circum- stances, report in writing a description of the noncompliance and its cause, the period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times, and if the noncompliance has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue, and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the noncompliance; and 
[B.]D. [The permittee shall report] With the next sched- uled monitoring report, submit in writing all instances of noncom- pliance not reported under other sections of this rule [at the time monitoring reports are submitted. The reports shall contain], including the information listed in subparagraph (4)(A)12.A. through C. 
(B) No owner or operator shall construct, operate, maintain, con- vert, plug, or abandon any Class III injection/production well or con- duct any other activity in a manner that allows the movement of fluid containing any contaminant into USDWs. The applicant for a permit shall have the burden of showing that the requirements of this section are met through a demonstration of mechanical integrity[. Demonstration of the absence of significant leaks shall uti- lize at least one (1) of the following procedures: a pressure test with liquid or gas; monitoring of annulus pressure in wells injecting at a positive pressure following an initial pres- sure test; or any other test(s) that the state geologist con- siders effective. Demonstration of the absence of significant migration of fluids in channels adjacent to the well bore shall utilize at least two (2) of the following procedures: noise logs, temperature surveys, cement records demonstrating the presence of adequate cement to prevent migration (used only if the nature of casing precludes the use of noise logs or temperature surveys); or any other test(s) approved by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and that the state geologist considers effective. Mechanical integrity must be demonstrated before operations may begin. Documentation of successful demonstration of mechanical integrity shall be submitted to the department or the department may witness the demonstrations. Scheduling of witnessed demonstra- tions of mechanical integrity shall be at the reasonable convenience of the applicant. Nothing in this rule shall pre- vent the director from rescheduling a test at a reasonable time convenient to the applicant when necessary to allow department personnel to witness the test(s).] by completing each of the following: 
1. Demonstrate the absence of significant leaks utilizing at least one (1) of the following procedures: a pressure test with liq- uid or gas; monitoring of annulus pressure in wells injecting at a positive pressure following an initial pressure test; or any other test(s) that the state geologist considers effective. 
2. Demonstrate the absence of significant migration of fluids in channels adjacent to the well bore utilizing at least two (2) of the following procedures: noise logs, temperature surveys, cement records demonstrating the presence of adequate cement to pre- vent migration (used only if the nature of casing precludes the use of noise logs or temperature surveys); or any other test(s) approved by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and that the state geologist considers effective. 
3. Demonstrate mechanical integrity before operations may begin by submitting documentation of successful demonstrations of mechanical integrity, or by allowing department personnel to witness the demonstrations. Scheduling of witnessed demonstra- tions of mechanical integrity may be at the reasonable conve- nience of the applicant. Nothing in this rule will prevent the director from rescheduling a test at a reasonable time convenient to the applicant when necessary to allow department personnel to 
witness the test(s). 
(D) Monitoring requirements, at a minimum, shall specify— 1. Monitoring of the nature of injected fluids with sufficient fre- quency to yield representative data on its characteristics. Whenever the injection fluid is modified to the extent that the analysis [required by] completed in accordance with paragraph (2)(B)25. is incorrect or incomplete, a new analysis [as required by] in accordance with paragraph (2)(B)25. shall be provided to the direc- 
tor; 2. Monitoring of injection pressure and either flow rate or vol- 
ume semi-monthly, or metering and daily recording of injected and produced fluid volumes as appropriate; 
3. Monitoring of the fluid level in the injection zone semi- monthly where appropriate and monitoring of the parameters chosen to measure water quality in the monitoring wells [as required by] in accordance with paragraph (2)(B)13. semimonthly; and 
4. Quarterly monitoring of wells [as required by] in accor- dance with by paragraph (2)(B)15. 
(5) Prohibitions. (A) No permit shall be issued [where the terms and condi- 
tions of the permit do not comply with applicable guidelines or requirements of the Clean Water Law and corresponding regulations or relevant federal laws.]: 
1. Where the terms and conditions of the permit do not com- ply with applicable guidelines or requirements of the Clean Water Law and corresponding regulations or relevant federal laws. 
[(B)]2. [No permit shall be issued w]Where the permit con- ditions do not ensure compliance with the applicable water quality requirements of any other affected states. 
[(C)]3. [No permit shall be issued f]For the discharge of any pollutant not necessary to the extraction process, except thermal dis- charges; those produced pollutants contained in the formation water may be reinjected into a formation of the same TDS concentration. 
[(D)]4. [No permit shall be issued f]For the discharge of any radiological, chemical, or biological warfare agent or radioactive waste. 
[(E)]5. [No permit shall be issued f]For the construction or operation of a new injection/production well which would degrade the usefulness of water withdrawn from earlier permitted wells. 
[(F)]6. [No permit shall be issued f]For a well utilizing annular injection or production. 
[(G)](B) No well shall be operated so that fluid pressures in the injection zone exceed the fracture pressure calculated or known for that formation. 
[(H)](C) New injection wells may not commence injection until construction is complete and— 
1. The permittee has submitted notice of completion of con- struction to the director and— 
A. The director has inspected or otherwise reviewed the new injection well and finds it is in compliance with the conditions of the permit; or 
B. The permittee has not received notice from the director of the intent to inspect or otherwise review the new injection well with- in thirteen (13) days of the date of the notice in paragraph (5)(H)1. of this rule, in which case prior inspection or review is waived and the permittee may commence injection. 
(I) No operation shall commence until corrective actions outlined in paragraph (2)(B)18. and those required by the department have been completed. 
(6) Class III Injection/Production Well Construction Requirements. (A) All new injection/production wells shall [be cased and cemented to prevent the migration of fluids into or between USDWs or potential sources of drinking water. The casing and cement used in construction of each newly drilled well shall be designed for the life of the well. In determining and 

Page 1642 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
specifying casing and cementing requirements, the following factors shall be considered] meet each of the following condi- tions: 
[1. Depth to the injection/production zone; 
2. Injection pressure, external pressure, internal pres- sure, axial loading; 
3. Borehole size; 
4. Size and grade of all casing strings including wall thickness, diameter, nominal weight, length, joint specifica- tion and construction material; 
5. Corrosiveness of injection/production and formation fluids or combinations; 
6. Lithology of injection/production and confining zones; and 
7. Type and grade of cement.] 
1. Wells are cased and cemented to prevent the migration of fluids into or between USDWs or potential sources of drinking water; 
2. The casing and cement used in construction of each newly drilled well is designed for the life of the well; 
3. Consider the following factors when determining and specifying casing and cementing requirements: 
A. Depth to the injection/production zone; 
B. Injection pressure, external pressure, internal pres- sure, axial loading; 
C. Borehole size; 
D. Size and grade of all casing strings including wall thick- ness, diameter, nominal weight, length, joint specification, and construction material; 
E. Corrosiveness of injection/production and formation fluids or combinations; 
F. Lithology of injection/production and confining zones; and 
G. Type and grade of cement. 
(8) Plugging and Abandonment. (D) The director [shall] will prescribe aquifer cleanup and moni- 
toring where s/he deems it necessary and feasible to insure adequate protection of USDWs. 
AUTHORITY: section 644.026, RSMo [Supp. 1987] 2016. Original rule filed Nov. 9, 1983, effective June 1, 1984. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, Attn: Jacob Faulkner, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. Comments may be sent with name and address through email to Jacob.faulkner@dnr.mo.gov. Public comments must be received by August 23, 2018. The public hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 6—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-6.200 Storm Water Regulations. The Clean Water Commission is amending sections (1), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7), deleting section (8), and renumbering and amending section (9). 
PURPOSE: This rule sets forth the requirements and process of application for permits for storm water discharges and the terms and conditions for the permits. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: The secretary of state has determined that the publication of the entire text of the material which is incorporated by reference as a portion of this rule would be unduly cumbersome or expensive. This material as incorporated by reference in this rule shall be maintained by the agency at its headquarters and shall be made available to the public for inspection and copying at no more than the actual cost of reproduction. This note applies only to the ref- erence material. The entire text of the rule is printed here. 
(1) Storm Water Permits—General. (B) Nothing shall prevent the department from taking action, 
including the requirement for issuance of any permits under the Missouri Clean Water Law and regulations, if any of the operations exempted should cause pollution of waters of the state or otherwise violate the Missouri Clean Water Law or these regulations. The fol- lowing are exempt from storm water permit regulations: 
[1. Discharges from facilities or activities excluded from the state operating permit program under 10 CSR 20- 6.010(1)(B);] 
[2.]1. Areas located on plant lands separate from the plant’s industrial activities, such as office buildings and accompanying park- ing lots, as long as the drainage from the excluded areas is not mixed with storm water drained from permitted areas; 
[3.]2. De minimis discharges as defined by the department in general permits or by the Clean Water Commission; 
[4.]3. Recycling collection points which are covered in a man- ner which prevents contact with storm water, including run on; 
[5.]4. Farmlands, domestic gardens, or lands used for sludge management where domestic sludge is beneficially reused and which are not physically located in the confines of the facility producing the sludge; 
[6.]5. Agricultural storm water discharges and irrigation return flows; 
[7.]6. Sites that disturb less than one (1) acre of total land area which are not part of a common plan or sale. Land disturbance activ- ity on an individual residential building lot is not considered as part of the overall subdivision unless the activity is by the developer to improve the lot for sale; 
[8.]7. Linear, strip, or ribbon construction or maintenance operations meeting one (1) of the following criteria: 
A. Grading of existing dirt or gravel roads which does not increase the runoff coefficient and the addition of an impermeable surface over an existing dirt or gravel road; 
B. Cleaning or routine maintenance of roadside ditches, sew- ers, waterlines, pipelines, utility lines, or similar facilities; 
C. Trenches two (2) feet in width or less; or 
D. Emergency repair or replacement of existing facilities as long as best management practices are employed during the emer- gency repair; 
[9.]8. Mowing, brush hog clearing, tree cutting, or similar activities which do not grade, dig, excavate, or otherwise remove or kill the surface growth and root system of the ground cover; 
[10.]9. Landfills which have received Missouri Department of Natural Resources approval to close and which are in compliance with any post-closure monitoring, management requirements, and deed restrictions, unless the department determines the facility is a significant discharger of storm water related pollutants; 
[11.]10. Facilities built to control the release of only storm water are not subject to the construction permitting requirement of 10 CSR 20-6.010(4), provided that the storm water does not come in 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1643 

contact with process waste, process wastewater, or significant mate- rials, and the storm water is not a significant contributor of pollu- tants; 
11. Phase II municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) may request a waiver in accordance with 40 CFR part 122.32(c), December 8, 1999, as published by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Docket Center, EPA West 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20004, are incorporated by refer- ence. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or addition. 
[12. The department may waive permit coverage if a municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) serves a pop- ulation of one thousand (1,000) or more within an urbanized area and the discharges meet the following criteria: 
A. The discharges are not contributing substantially to the pollutant loadings of a physically interconnected MS4 that is regulated by the department’s storm water program; and 
B. If the discharge includes any pollutant(s) that have been identified as a cause of impairment of any water body to which it flows and storm water controls are not needed based on wasteload allocations that are part of an U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approved or estab- lished total maximum daily load (TMDL) that addresses the pollutant(s) of concern; 
13. The department may waive permit coverage if a MS4 serves a population of ten thousand (10,000) or more and the discharges meet the following criteria: 
A. The department has evaluated all waters of the state, including small streams, tributaries, lakes, and ponds, that receive a discharge from the MS4; 
B. For all such waters, the department has determined that storm water controls are not needed based on waste- load allocations that are part of an EPA approved or estab- lished TMDL that addresses the pollutant(s) of concern or, if a TMDL has not been developed or approved, an equivalent analysis that determines sources and allocations for the pol- lutant(s) of concern; 
C. For the purpose of this paragraph, the pollutant(s) of concern include biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), sed- iment or a parameter that addresses sediment (such as total suspended solids, turbidity, or siltation), pathogens, oil and grease, and any pollutant that has been identified as a cause of impairment of any water body that receives a discharge from a MS4; and 
D. The department has determined that future dis- charges from a MS4 do not have the potential to result in exceedances of water quality standards, including impair- ment of designated uses, or other significant water quality impacts, including habitat and biological impacts;] 
[14.]12. A regulated small MS4 may share the responsibility under the following: 
A. A MS4 may develop an agreement with another entity to assist with satisfying the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit obligations or with implementing a mini- mum control measure if: 
(I) The other entity currently implements the control mea- 
sure; 
(II) The particular control measure, or component thereof, is at least as stringent as the corresponding permit requirement; and (III) A MS4 that relies on another entity to satisfy some of the permit obligations specifies the condition of the agreement, including a description of the obligations implemented by the other entity. The permitted MS4 remains ultimately responsible for com- pliance with the permit obligations if the other entity fails to imple- 
ment the control measure (or component thereof); B. In some cases, the department may recognize, either in an 
individual permit or in a general permit that another governmental 
entity is responsible under a permit for implementing one (1) or more of the minimum control measures for a small MS4. Where the department recognizes these dual responsibilities, the department may not require the MS4 to include such minimum control measure(s) in their program. The MS4 permit may be modified to include the requirement to implement a minimum control measure if the other entity fails to implement it; 
[15.]13. The director may waive the otherwise applicable requirements in a general permit for a storm water discharge from construction activities that disturb less than five (5) acres, but more than one (1) acre, where: 
A. The value of the rainfall erosivity factor R in the Revised Universal Soil Loss Equation is less than five (5) during the period of construction activity. The rainfall erosivity factor is determined in accordance with Chapter 2 of Agriculture Handbook Number 703, Predicting Universal Soil Loss Equation (RUSLE), pages 21–64, dated January 1997, which is incorporated in this rule by reference. Copies may be obtained from EPA’s Water Resource Center, Mail Code RC4100, 401 M Street S.W., Washington, DC 20460. An operator must certify to the director that the construction activity will take place during a period when the value of the rainfall erosivity fac- tor is less than five (5); or 
B. A TMDL approved or established by the department or by the EPA that addresses the pollutant(s) of concern without the need for storm water controls; 
C. Waste load allocations are not needed on non-impaired waters to protect water quality based on consideration of existing in- stream concentrations, expected growth in pollutant contributions from all sources, and a margin of safety. For the purpose of para- graph (1)(B)15. and subparagraph (1)(B)15.C. of this rule, the pol- lutant(s) of concern include sediment or a parameter that addresses sediment (such as total suspended solids, turbidity, or siltation) and any other pollutant that has been identified as a cause or a potential cause of impairment of any water body that will receive a discharge from the construction activity. The operator must certify to the department that the construction activity will take place, and that storm water discharges will occur, within the drainage area addressed by the TMDL or by an equivalent analysis[; and]. 
[16.](C) No Exposure Certification. A storm water permit under this rule may be excluded for industrial activities that do not expose materials to storm water. No exposure exists if the industrial materials and activities are protected from rain, snow, snowmelt, and/or runoff and the operator meets the requirements under [parts A.(I) through B.(III) of this] paragraph (C)1. and subparagraph (C)2.C. of this subsection. 
[A.]1. Industrial materials and activities protected by storm resistant shelter. No exposure means that all industrial materials and activities are protected by a storm resistant shelter to prevent expo- sure to rain, snow, snowmelt, and/or runoff. Industrial materials or activities include, but are not limited to, material handling equipment or activities, industrial machinery, raw materials, intermediate prod- ucts, by-products, final products, or waste products. Material han- dling activities include the storage, loading and unloading, trans- portation, or conveyance of any raw material, intermediate product, final product, or waste product. To qualify a permit exclusion under this paragraph, the operator of the discharge must: 
[(I)]A. Provide a storm resistant shelter to protect industrial materials and activities from exposure to rain, snow, snowmelt, and runoff; 
[(II)]B. Complete and sign a certification that storm water is not contaminated by exposure to industrial materials and activities from the entire facility[, except as provided in paragraph (1)(A)2. of this rule]; 
[(III)]C. Re-submit the signed certification to the department once every five (5) years; 
[(IV)]D. Allow the department to inspect the facility to deter- mine compliance with the no-exposure conditions; 
[(V)]E. Make the no-exposure inspection reports available to 

Page 1644 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
the public upon request; and [(VI)]F. For facilities that discharge through a MS4, submit a 
copy of the certification of no-exposure to the MS4 operator, as well as allow inspection and public reporting of the inspection findings by the MS4 operator. 
[B.]2. Industrial materials and activities not requiring storm resistant shelter. An industrial site may qualify for this exclusion without a storm resistant shelter if: 
[(I)]A. Drums, barrels, tanks, and similar containers are tightly sealed, provided those containers are not deteriorated and do not leak. Sealed means banded or otherwise secured and without operational taps or valves; 
[(II)]B. Adequately maintained vehicles are used in material handling; and 
[(III)]C. All industrial materials consist of final products, other than products that would be mobilized by storm water. 
[(C)](D) Definitions. 1. Best management practices (BMPs). Schedules of activities, 
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other man- agement practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of waters of the state. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating proce- dures and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw material storage. 
2. BMPs for land disturbance. A schedule of activities, prac- tices, or procedures that reduces the amount of soil available for transport or a device that reduces the amount of suspended solids in runoff before discharge to waters of the state. Types of BMPs for storm water control include, but are not limited to: 
A. State-approved standard specifications and permit pro- grams; 
B. Employee training in erosion control, material handling and storage, and housekeeping of maintenance areas; 
C. Site preparation such as grading, surface roughening, top- soiling, tree preservation and protection, and temporary construction entrances; 
D. Surface stabilization such as temporary seeding, perma- nent seeding, mulching, sodding, ground cover including vines and shrubs, riprap, and geotextile fabric. Mulches may be hay, straw, fiber mats, netting, wood cellulose, corn or tobacco stalks, bark, corn cobs, wood chips, or other suitable material which is reasonably clean and free of noxious weeds and deleterious materials. Grasses used for temporary seeding shall be a quick growing species such as rye grass, Italian rye grass, or cereal grasses suitable to the area and which will not compete with the grasses sown later for permanent cover; 
E. Runoff control measures such as temporary diversion dikes or berms, permanent diversion dikes or berms, right-of-way or perimeter diversion devices, and retention and detention basins. Sediment traps and barriers, sediment basins, sediment (silt) fence, and staked straw bale barriers; 
F. Runoff conveyance measures such as grass-lined channels, riprap, and paved channels, temporary slope drains, paved flumes, or chutes. Slope drains may be constructed of pipe, fiber mats, rubble, Portland cement concrete, bituminous concrete, plastic sheets, or other materials that adequately will control erosion; 
G. Inlet and outlet protection; 
H. Streambank protection such as a vegetative greenbelt between the land disturbance and the watercourse. Also, structural protection which stabilizes the stream channel; 
I. A critical path method analysis or a schedule for perform- ing erosion control measures; and 
J. Other proven methods for controlling runoff and sedimen- tation; 
3. Copetitioner. A person with apportioned legal, financial, and administrative responsibility based on land area under its control for filing Part 1 and Part 2 of a state operating permit for the discharge of storm water from municipal separate storm sewer systems. A copetitioner becomes a copermittee once the permit is issued. 
4. Copermittee. A permittee to a state operating permit that is responsible only for permit conditions relating to the discharge for which it is owner or operator, or both. 
5. De minimis water contaminant source. A water contaminant source, point source, or wastewater treatment facility that is deter- mined by the department to pose a negligible potential impact on waters of the state, even in the event of the malfunction of wastewater treatment controls or material handling procedures. 
6. Field screening point. A specific location which during mon- itoring will provide representative information to indicate the pres- ence of illicit connections or illegal dumping and quality of water within a municipal separate storm sewer system. 
7. Illicit discharge. Any discharge to a municipal separate storm sewer that is not composed entirely of storm water, except discharges pursuant to a state operating permit, other than storm water dis- charge permits and discharges from fire fighting activities. 
8. Incorporated place (in Missouri, a municipality). A city, town, or village that is incorporated under the laws of Missouri. 
9. Landfill. Location where waste materials are deposited on or buried within the soil or subsoil. Included are open dumps and land- fills built or operated, or both, prior to the passage of the Missouri Solid Waste Management Law as well as those built or operated, or both, since. 
10. Large municipal separate storm sewer system. All municipal separate storm sewers that are either— 
A. Located in an incorporated place with a population of two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) or more; 
B. Located in the counties designated by the director as unin- corporated places with significant urbanization and identified sys- tems of municipal separate storm sewers; 
C. Owned and operated by a municipality other than those described in [sub]paragraphs (1)[(C)10.A.](D)15. and (1)(D)29. of this rule that are designated by the director as part of a system. In making this determination, the director may consider the following factors: 
(I) Physical interconnections between the municipal sepa- rate storm sewers; 
(II) The location of discharges from the designated munic- ipal storm sewer relative to the discharges from municipal separate storm sewer described in [sub]paragraph (1)[(C)10.A.](D)16. of this rule; 
(III) The quantity and nature of pollutants discharged to the waters of the state; 
(IV) The nature of the receiving waters; or 
(V) Other relevant factors; and D. The director, upon petition, may designate as a large 
municipal separate storm sewer system, municipal separate storm sewers located within the boundaries of a region defined by a storm water management regional authority based on a jurisdiction, water- shed, or other appropriate basis that includes one (1) or more of the systems described in subparagraph [(1)(C)10.A.] (1)(B)10.A. of this rule. 
11. MS4 means: A. A municipal separate storm sewer system. 
12. Major municipal separate storm sewer system outfall (major outfall). A municipal separate storm sewer outfall that discharges from a single pipe with an inside diameter of thirty-six inches (36") or more (or its equivalent) or for municipal separate storm sewers that receive storm waters from lands zoned for industrial activity within the municipal separate storm sewer system with an outfall that discharges from a single pipe with an inside diameter of twelve inch- es (12") or more (or from its equivalent). Industrial activity areas do not include commercial areas. 
13. Major outfall. A major municipal separate storm sewer out- fall. 
14. Major structural controls. Man-made retention basins, deten- tion basins, major infiltration devices, or other structures designed and operated for the purpose of containing storm water discharges from an 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1645 

area greater than or equal to fifty (50) acres. 15. Medium municipal separate storm sewer system. All munic- 
ipal separate storm sewers that are either— A. Located in an incorporated place with a population of one 
hundred thousand (100,000) or more but less than two hundred fifty thousand (250,000), as determined by the latest decennial census by the Bureau of Census; or 
B. Owned and operated by a municipality other than those described in subparagraph [(1)(C)15.A.] (1)(D)15.A of this rule and that are designated by the director as part of the system. In mak- ing this determination, the director may consider the following fac- tors: 
(I) Physical interconnections between the municipal sepa- rate storm sewers; 
(II) The locations of discharges from the designated munic- ipal separate storm sewer relative to discharges from the municipal separate storm sewers described in subparagraph [(1)(C)15.A.] (1)(D)15.A. of this rule; 
(III) The quantity and nature of pollutants discharged to waters of the state; 
(IV) The nature of the receiving waters; (V) Other relevant factors; or (VI) The director, upon petition, may designate as a medi- 
um municipal separate storm sewer system, municipal separate storm sewers located within the boundaries of a region defined by a storm water management regional authority based on a jurisdiction, water- shed, or other appropriate basis that includes one (1) or more of the systems described in subparagraph [(1)(C)15.A.] (1)(D)15.A. of this rule. 
16. Municipal separate storm sewer means a conveyance or sys- tem of conveyances including roads and highways with drainage sys- tems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, paved or unpaved channels, or storm drains designated and utilized for routing of storm water which— 
A. Does not include any waters of the state [as defined in this rule]; 
B. Is [contained within the municipal corporate limits or is] owned and operated by the state, city, town, village, county, district, association, or other public body created by or pursuant to the laws of Missouri having jurisdiction over disposal of sewage, industrial waste, storm water, or other liquid wastes; 
C. Is not a part or portion of a combined sewer system; 
D. Is not a part of a publicly owned treatment works as defined in 40 CFR 122.2; and 
E. Sewers that are defined as large or medium or small municipal separate storm sewer systems pursuant to paragraphs 10., 15., and [28.] 29. of this section, or designated under subsection (1)(B) of this rule. 
17. Operator. The owner, or an agent of the owner, of a separate storm sewer with responsibility for operating and maintaining the effectiveness of the system. 
18. Outfall. A point source as defined by 10 CSR 20-2.010 at the point where a municipal separate storm sewer discharges and does not include open conveyances connecting two (2) municipal sep- arate storm sewers, pipes, tunnels, or other conveyances which con- nect segments of waters of the state and are used to convey waters of the state. 
19. Overburden. Any material of any nature consolidated or unconsolidated that overlays a mineral deposit excluding topsoil or similar naturally occurring surface materials that are not disturbed by mining operations. 
20. Owner. A person who owns and controls the use, operation, and maintenance of a separate storm sewer. 
21. Process wastewater. Any water which, during manufactur- ing or processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product. 
22. Receiving waters. Waters of the state as defined in this rule. 
23. Recycling facilities. Locations where metals, paper, tires, glass, organic materials, used oils, spent solvents, or other materials are collected for reuse, reprocessing, or resale. 
24. Regulated MS4 means: A. A MS4 which serves a population of one thousand (1,000) 
or more within an urbanized area, or any MS4 located outside of an urbanized area serving a jurisdiction with a population of at least ten thousand (10,000) and a population density of one thousand (1,000) people per square mile or greater. 
B. A MS4 which is designated by the department when it is determined that the discharges from the MS4 have caused or have the potential to cause an adverse impact on water quality. An application shall be submitted within one hundred eighty (180) days of the des- ignation by the department. 
25. Runoff coefficient. The fraction of total rainfall that will appear at a conveyance as runoff. 
26. Significant contributor of pollutants. A person who dis- charges or causes the discharge of pollutants in storm water which can cause water quality standards of the waters of the state to be vio- lated. 
27. Significant material or activity associated with industrial activity. 
A. For the categories of industries identified in subsections (2)(A)–[(D)](C) of this rule, the term includes, but is not limited to, storm water discharged from industrial plant yards, immediate access roads and rail lines used or traveled by carriers of raw materials, manufactured products, waste material, or by-products used or cre- ated by the facility. 
B. Significant materials include, but are not limited to, raw materials; fuels; materials such as solvents, detergents, and plastic pellets; finished materials such as metallic products; raw materials used in food processing or production; hazardous substances desig- nated under Section 101(14) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA); any chemical the facility is required to report pursuant to Section 313 of Title III of Superfund Amendments & Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA); fertilizers; pesticides; and waste products such as ashes, slag, and sludge that have the potential to be released with storm water discharges. 
C. Material received in drums, totes, or other secure contain- ers or packages which prevent contact with storm water, including run on, are exempted from the significant materials classification until the container has been opened for any reason. If the container is moved into a building or other protected area prior to opening, it will not become a significant material. 
D. Empty containers which have been properly triple rinsed are not significant materials. 
28. Small construction activity means: A. Construction activities including clearing, grading, and 
excavating that result in land disturbance of equal to or greater than one (1) acre and less than five (5) acres. Small construction activity also includes the disturbance of less than one (1) acre of total land area that is part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb equal to or greater than one (1) and less than five (5) acres. Small construction activity does not include routine maintenance that is performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or original purpose of the facility. 
B. Any other construction activity designated by the depart- ment, based on the potential for contribution to a violation of a water quality standard or for significant contribution of pollutants to waters of the United States. 
29. Small municipal separate storm sewer system means: A. Owned or operated by the United States, a state, city, town, borough, county, parish, district, association, or other public body (created by or pursuant to state law) having jurisdiction over disposal of sewage, industrial wastes, storm water, or other wastes, including special districts under state law such as a sewer district, 

Page 1646 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
flood control district, or drainage district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe or an authorized Indian tribal organization, or a desig- nated and approved management agency under section 208 of the Clean Water Act (CWA) that discharges to water of the United States. 
B. Not defined as large or medium municipal separate storm sewer systems pursuant to paragraphs 10. and 15. of this subsection. C. This term includes systems similar to separate storm sewer systems in municipalities, such as systems at military bases, large hospital or prison complexes, and highways and other thoroughfares. The term does not include separate storm sewers in very discrete 
areas, such as around individual buildings. 30. Small MS4 means: 
A. A small municipal separate storm sewer system. 31. Storm water means storm water runoff, snowmelt runoff 
and surface runoff, and drainage. 32. Storm water discharge associated with industrial activity 
means the discharge from any conveyance which is used for collect- ing and conveying storm water and which is directly related to man- ufacturing, processing, or raw material storage areas at an industrial plant. 
[33. Waters of the state, as it applies to large and medi- um municipalities under this regulation, means all waters listed as L1, L2, and L3 in Table G and P, P1, and C in Table H of 10 CSR 20-7.031.] 
(3) Land Disturbance and Small Construction Activity. (A) The owner/operator of an existing or new storm water dis- charge from a land disturbance or small construction activity shall 
provide a narrative description of— 1. The location (including a map) and the nature of the con- 
struction activity; 2. The total area of the site and the area of the site that is expect- 
ed to undergo excavation during the life of the permit; 
[3. Proposed measures, including BMPs, to control pol- lutants in storm water discharges during construction, including a brief description of applicable state and local ero- sion and sediment control requirements; 
4. Proposed measures to control pollutants in storm water discharges that will occur after construction opera- tions have been completed, including a brief description of applicable state or local erosion and sediment control requirements; 
5. An estimate of the runoff coefficient of the site and the increase in impervious area after the construction addressed in the permit application is completed, the nature of fill material and existing data describing the soil or the quality of the discharge; and] 
[6.]3. The name of the receiving water[.]; and 
4. Applicable requirements under 40 CFR part 122.21(f), April 1, 1983, as published by the EPA Docket Center, EPA West 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20004, are incorporated by reference. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. 
(4) Application requirements for large, medium municipal separate storm sewer discharges. [The owner and operator of a discharge from a large, medium municipal separate storm sewer or a municipal separate storm sewer that is designated by the director under paragraph (1)(C)10. of this rule may submit a jurisdiction- or system-wide permit application. Where more than one (1) public entity owns and operates a municipal separate storm sewer within a geographic area, including adjacent or interconnected municipal separate storm sewer systems, the owners and operators may be copetitioners to the same application. A public entity which does not partic- ipate as a copetitioner with the municipal entity designated as having overall authority over storm water discharges may be required by the director to submit a separate application 
for its area of responsibility. Permit applications for dis- charges from large, medium municipal storm sewers or municipal storm sewers designated under paragraph (1)(C)14. of this rule shall include:] 
[(A) Part 1 of the application shall consist of— 1. General information. The applicant’s name, address, telephone number of contact person, ownership and opera- tor status, and status as a state or local government entity; 2. Legal authority. A description of existing legal author- ity to control discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system. When existing legal authority is not suffi- cient to meet the criteria provided in paragraph (4)(B)1. of this rule, the description shall list additional authorities as will be necessary to meet the criteria and shall include a schedule and commitment to seek the additional authority 
that will be needed to meet the criteria; 3. Source identification. 
A. A description of the historic use of ordinances, guidance, or other controls which limit the discharge of non- storm water discharges to any publicly-owned treatment works serving the same area as the municipal separate storm sewer system. 
B. A United States Geological Survey seven and one- half (7.5) minute topographic map (or equivalent topograph- ic map with a scale between 1:10,000 and 1:24,000 if cost effective) extending one (1) mile beyond the service bound- aries of the municipal storm sewer system covered by the permit application. The following information shall be pro- vided: 
(I) The location of known municipal storm sewer system outfalls discharging to waters of the state; 
(II) A description of the land use activities (for example, divisions indicating undeveloped, residential, com- mercial, agricultural, and industrial uses) accompanied with estimates of population densities and projected growth for a ten (10)-year period within the drainage area served by the separate storm sewer. An estimate of an average runoff coefficient shall be provided for each land use type; 
(III) The location and a description of the activities of the facility of each currently operating or closed municipal landfill or other treatment, storage, or disposal facility for municipal waste; 
(IV) The location and the permit number of any known discharge to the municipal storm sewer that has been issued a state operating permit; 
(V) The location of major structural controls for storm water discharge (retention basins, detention basins, major infiltration devices, etc.); and 
(VI) The identification of publicly-owned parks, recreational areas, and other open lands; 
4. Discharge characterization. A. Monthly mean rain and snowfall estimates (or sum- 
mary of weather bureau data) and the monthly average num- ber of storm events. 
B. Existing quantitative data describing the volume and quality of discharges from the municipal separate storm sewer, including a description of the major outfalls sampled, sampling procedures, and analytical methods used. 
C. A list of water bodies that receive discharges from the municipal separate storm sewer system, including down- stream segments, groundwater, lakes, and wetlands where pollutants from the system discharges may accumulate and cause water degradation and a brief description of known water quality impacts. At a minimum, the description of impacts shall include a description of whether the water bodies receiving discharges have been: 
(I) Assessed and reported in Section 305(b) reports submitted by the state, the basis for the assessment (evalu- ated or monitored), a summary of designated use support 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1647 

and attainment of CWA goals (fishable and swimmable waters) and causes of nonsupport of designated uses; 
(II) Listed under Section 304(l) of the CWA that is not expected to meet water quality standards or water qual- ity goals; 
(III) Listed in state Nonpoint Source Assessments required by Section 319(a) of the CWA that, without addi- tional action to control nonpoint sources of pollution, cannot reasonably be expected to attain or maintain water quality standards due to storm sewers, construction, highway main- tenance, and runoff from municipal landfills and municipal sludge adding significant pollution (or contributing to a vio- lation of water quality standards); 
(IV) Identified and classified according to eutrophic condition of publicly-owned lakes listed in state reports required under Section 314(a) of the CWA including the fol- lowing: A description of those publicly-owned lakes for which uses are known to be impaired; a description of pro- cedures, processes, and methods to control the discharge of pollutants from municipal separate storm sewers into those lakes and a description of methods and procedures to restore the quality of those lakes; 
(V) Recognized by the applicant as highly valued or sensitive waters; 
(VI) Defined by the state or United States Fish and Wildlife Service’s National Wetlands Inventory as wetlands; and 
(VII) Found to have pollutants in bottom sediments, fish tissue, or biosurvey data. 
D. Field screening. Results of a field screening analy- sis for illicit connections and illegal dumping for either selected field screening points or major outfalls covered in the permit application. At a minimum, a screening analysis shall include a narrative description, for either each field screening point or major outfall, of visual observations made during dry weather periods. If any flow is observed, two (2) grab samples shall be collected during a twenty-four (24)- hour period with a minimum period of four (4) hours between samples. For all these samples, a narrative descrip- tion of the color, odor, turbidity, presence of an oil sheen or surface scum, as well as any other relevant observations regarding the potential presence of nonstorm water dis- charges or illegal dumping shall be provided. In addition, a narrative description of the results of a field analysis using suitable methods to estimate pH, total chlorine, total copper, total phenol, and detergents (or surfactants) shall be provid- ed along with a description of the flow rate. Where the field analysis does not involve analytical methods approved under 10 CSR 20-7.015, the applicant shall provide a description of the method used, including the name of the manufacturer of the test method along with the range and accuracy of the test. Field screening points shall be major outfalls, other out- fall points, manholes, junctions of storm drainage ditches etc., located throughout the storm sewer system by one (1) of the following two (2) methods: 
(I) Field screening points shall be located randomly throughout the storm sewer system by placing a grid over a drainage system map and identifying those cells of the grid which contain a segment of the storm sewer system or major outfall. For the use of this method, the field screening points shall be established using the following guidelines and criteria: 
(a) A grid system consisting of perpendicular north-south and east-west lines spaced one-quarter (1/4) mile apart shall be overlaid on a map of the municipal storm sewer system creating a series of cells; 
(b) All cells that contain a segment of the storm sewer system shall be identified. One (1) field screening 
point shall be selected in each cell (not to exceed the num- ber required in subpart (4)(A)4.D.(I)(f)). Major outfalls may be used as field screening points; 
(c) Field screening points should be located downstream of any sources of suspected illegal or illicit activity; 
(d) Field screening points shall be located to the degree practicable at the farthest manhole or other accessi- ble location downstream in the system within each cell. However, safety of personnel and accessibility of the loca- tion should be considered in making this determination; 
(e) Hydrological conditions, total drainage area of the site, population density of the site, traffic density, age of the structures or buildings in the area, history of the area, and land-use types; 
(f) For medium municipal separate storm sewer systems, no more than two hundred fifty (250) cells need to have identified field screening points. In large municipal sep- arate storm sewer systems, no more than five hundred (500) cells need to have identified field screening points. Cells established by the grid that contain no storm sewer seg- ments will be eliminated from consideration. If fewer than two hundred fifty (250) cells in medium municipal sewers are created, and fewer than five hundred (500) in large sys- tems are created by the overlay on the municipal sewer map, then all those cells which contain a segment of the sewer system shall be subject to field screening unless access to the separate storm sewer system is impossible; and 
(g) Municipal separate storm sewer systems which are unable to utilize the procedures described in sub- part (4)(A)4.D.(I) of this rule because a sufficiently detailed map of the separate storm sewer systems is unavailable shall field screen no more than five hundred (500) or two hundred fifty (250) major outfalls respectively (or all major outfalls in the system, if fewer). In these circumstances, the applicant shall establish a grid system consisting of north-south and east-west lines spaced one-quarter (1/4) mile apart as an overlay to the boundaries of the municipal storm sewer sys- tem, thereby creating a series of cells. The applicant will then select major outfalls in as many cells as possible until at least five hundred (500) major outfalls (large municipali- ties) or two hundred fifty (250) major outfalls (medium municipalities) are selected. A field screening analysis shall be undertaken at these major outfalls; or 
(II) Field screening points shall be located through- out the storm sewer system by the establishment of water- sheds for both conduit and open drainage conveyance sys- tems. The drainage system shall be indicated on a drainage system map along with the identification of the appropriate watershed boundaries. For the use of this method, the appli- cant, with the approval of the director, may develop the runoff characteristics of each land area contributing to a sampling point by utilizing best engineering judgment and current hydrologic analysis methodologies. The proposal shall be submitted to the department as an attachment to the Part 1 storm water permit application required by this regulation. 
E. Characterization plan. Information and a proposed program to meet the requirements of paragraph (4)(B)3. of this rule. The description shall include the location of outfalls or field screening points appropriate for representative data collection under paragraph (4)(B)3. of this rule, a description of why the outfall or field screening point is representative, the seasons during which sampling is intended, and a description of the sampling equipment. The proposed loca- tion of outfalls or field screening points for sampling should reflect water quality concerns to the extent practicable; 
5. Management programs. 

Page 1648 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
A. A description of the existing management pro- grams to control pollutants from the municipal separate storm sewer system. The description shall provide informa- tion on existing structural and source controls, including operation and maintenance measures for structural controls that are currently being implemented. These controls may include, but are not limited to, procedures to control pollu- tion resulting from construction activities; flood plain man- agement controls; wetland protection measures; BMPs for new subdivisions; and emergency spill response programs. The description may address controls established under state law as well as local requirements. 
B. A description of the existing program to identify illicit connections to the municipal storm sewer system. The description should include inspection procedures and meth- ods for detecting and preventing illicit discharges and describe areas where this program has been implemented; and 
6. Fiscal resources. A description of the financial resources currently available to the municipality to complete Part 2 of the permit application. A description of the munic- ipality’s budget for existing storm water programs, including an overview of the municipality’s financial resources and budget, including overall indebtedness and assets and sources of funds for storm water programs; and 
(B) Part 2 of the application shall consist of— 1. Adequate legal authority. A demonstration that the applicant can operate pursuant to legal authority established by statute, ordinance or series of contracts which authorizes 
or enables the applicant(s), at a minimum to— A. Control through ordinance, permit, contract, order or similar means, the contribution of pollutants to the munic- ipal storm sewer by storm discharges associated with indus- trial activity, and the quality of storm water discharged from 
sites of industrial activity; B. Prohibit through ordinance, order or similar means 
illicit discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer; C. Control through ordinance, order, or similar means the discharge to a municipal separate storm sewer of spills, 
dumping, or disposal of materials other than storm water; D. Control through interagency agreements among copetitioners the contribution of pollutants from one (1) por- tion of the municipal system to another portion of the 
municipal system; E. Require compliance with terms and conditions in 
ordinances, permits, contracts, or orders; and F. Carry out all inspection, surveillance, and monitor- 
ing procedures necessary to determine compliance and non- compliance with permit conditions including the prohibition on illicit discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer; 
2. Source identification. The location of any major out- fall that discharges to waters of the state that was not reported under paragraph (4)(A)3. of this rule. Provide an inventory and a description (such as SIC codes) which best reflect the principal products or services provided by each facility which may discharge storm water associated with industrial activities to the municipal separate storm sewer; 
3. Characterization data. When quantitative data for a pollutant are required under subparagraph (4)(B)3.A. of this rule, the applicant must collect a sample of effluent in accor- dance with 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7) and analyze it for the pol- lutant in accordance with analytical methods approved under 40 CFR part 136. When no analytical method is approved, the applicant may use any suitable method, but must provide a description of the method. The applicant must provide information characterizing the quality and quantity of dis- charges covered in the permit application including: 
A. Quantitative data from representative outfalls or 
field screening points designated by the director (based on information received in Part 1 of the application, the director shall designate between five (5) and ten (10) outfalls or field screening points as representative of the commercial, resi- dential, and industrial land use activities of the drainage area contributing to the system or, where there are less than five (5) outfalls covered in the application, the director shall des- ignate all outfalls or field screening points) developed as fol- lows: 
(I) For each outfall or field screening point designat- ed under this part, samples shall be collected of storm water discharges from three (3) storm events occurring at least one (1) month apart; 
(II) A narrative description shall be provided of the date and duration of the storm event(s) sampled, rainfall esti- mates of the storm event which generated the sampled dis- charge, and the duration between the storm event sampled and the end of the previous measurable (greater than one- tenth inch (0.1”) rainfall) storm event; 
(III) For samples collected and described under parts (4)(B)3.A.(I) and (II) of this rule, quantitative data shall be provided for the organic pollutants listed in Table II; the pol- lutants listed in Table III (toxic metals, cyanide, and total phe- nols) of Appendix D of 40 CFR part 122 and for the follow- ing pollutants: 
(a) TSS; (b) Total dissolved solids (TDS); (c) COD; (d) BOD5; (e) Oil and grease; (f) Fecal coliform; (g) Fecal streptococcus; (h) pH; (i) Total Kjeldahl nitrogen; (j) Nitrate plus nitrite; (k) Dissolved phosphorus; (l) Total ammonia plus organic nitrogen; and (m) Total phosphorus; and 
(IV) Additional limited quantitative data required by the director for determining permit conditions. The director may require that quantitative data shall be provided for addi- tional parameters and may establish sampling conditions such as the location, season of sample collection, form of precipitation (snow melt, rainfall) and other parameters nec- essary to ensure representativeness; 
B. Estimates of the annual pollutant load of the cumu- lative discharges to waters of the state from all identified municipal outfalls or field screening points and the event mean concentration of the cumulative discharges to waters of the state from all identified municipal outfalls or field screening points during a storm event as described under paragraphs (4)(A)3. and (4)(B)2. for BOD5, COD, TSS, dis- solved solids, total nitrogen, total ammonia plus organic nitrogen, total phosphorus, dissolved phosphorus, cadmium, copper, lead, and zinc. Estimates shall be accompanied by a description of the procedures for estimating constituent loads and concentrations, including any modeling, data analysis, and calculation methods; 
C. A proposed schedule to provide estimates for each major outfall or field screening point identified in either para- graph (4)(A)3. or (4)(B)2. of this rule of the seasonal pollu- tant load and of the event mean concentration of a represen- tative storm for any constituent detected in any sample required under subparagraph (4)(B)3.A. of this rule; and 
D. A proposed monitoring program for representative data collection for the term of the permit that describes the location of outfalls or field screening points to be sampled (or the location of instream stations), why the location is 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1649 

representative, the frequency of sampling, parameters to be sampled, and a description of sampling equipment; 
4. Proposed management program. A proposed man- agement program covers the duration of the permit. It shall include a comprehensive planning process which involves public participation and where necessary intergovernmental coordination to reduce the discharge of pollutants to the maximum extent practicable using BMPs, control techniques and system, design and engineering methods, and other pro- visions which are appropriate. The program shall also include a description of staff and equipment available to implement the program. Separate proposed programs may be submitted by each copetitioner. Proposed programs may impose con- trols on a system-wide basis, a watershed basis, a jurisdic- tion basis, or on individual outfalls. Proposed programs will be considered by the director when developing permit condi- tions to reduce pollutants in discharges to the maximum extent practicable. Proposed management programs shall describe priorities for implementing controls. These pro- grams shall be based on— 
A. A description of structural and source control mea- sures to reduce pollutants from runoff from commercial and residential areas that are discharged from the municipal storm sewer system that are to be implemented during the life of the permit, accompanied with an estimate of the expected reduction of pollutant loads and a proposed sched- ule for implementing the controls. At a minimum, the description shall include: 
(I) A description of maintenance activities and a maintenance schedule for structural controls to reduce pol- lutants (including floatables) in discharges from municipal separate storm sewers; 
(II) A description of planning procedures including a comprehensive master plan to develop, implement, and enforce controls to reduce the discharge of pollutants from municipal separate storm sewers which receive discharges from areas of new development and significant redevelop- ment. The plan shall address controls to reduce pollutants in discharges from municipal separate storm sewers after con- struction is completed; 
(III) A description of practices for operating and maintaining public streets, roads, and highways and proce- dures for reducing the impact on receiving waters of dis- charges from municipal storm sewer systems, including pol- lutants discharged as a result of deicing activities; 
(IV) A description of procedures to assure that flood management projects assess the impacts on the water qual- ity of receiving water bodies and that existing structural flood control devices have been evaluated to determine if retrofitting the device to provide additional pollutant removal from storm water is feasible; 
(V) A description of a program to monitor pollutants in runoff from operating or closed municipal landfills or other treatment, storage, or disposal facilities for municipal waste which shall identify priorities and procedures for inspections and establishing and implementing control measures for the discharges. This program can be coordinated with the pro- gram developed under subparagraph (4)(B)4.D. of this rule; and 
(VI) A description of a program to reduce to the maximum extent practicable pollutants in discharges from municipal separate storm sewers associated with the appli- cation of pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizer which will include, as appropriate, controls such as educational activi- ties, permits, certifications, and other measures for commer- cial applicators and distributors and controls for application in public right-of-ways and at municipal facilities; 
B. A description of a program, including a schedule, to 
detect and remove (or require the discharger to the municipal separate storm sewer to obtain a separate state operating permit) illicit discharges and improper disposal into the storm sewer. The proposed program shall include: 
(I) A description of a program including inspections, to implement and enforce an ordinance, orders, or similar means to prevent illicit discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system. This program description shall address all types of illicit discharges, however the following cate- gories of nonstorm water discharges or flows shall be addressed where the discharges are identified by the munic- ipality as sources of pollutants to waters of the state: water line flushing, landscape irrigation, diverted stream flows, ris- ing groundwaters, uncontaminated groundwater infiltration to separate storm sewers, uncontaminated pumped ground- water, discharges from potable water sources, foundation drains, air-conditioning condensation, irrigation water, springs, water from crawl space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering, individual residential car washing, flows from riparian habitats and wetlands, dechlorinated swimming pool discharges, and street wash water. Program descriptions shall address discharges or flows from fire fighting only where the discharges or flows are identified as significant sources of pollutants to waters of the state; 
(II) A description of procedures to conduct ongoing field screening activities during the life of the permit, includ- ing areas or locations that will be evaluated by field screens; 
(III) A description of procedures to be followed to investigate portions of the separate storm sewer system that, based on the results of the field screen, or other appro- priate information, indicate a reasonable potential of contain- ing illicit discharges or other sources of nonstorm water. These procedures may include: sampling procedures for con- stituents such as fecal coliform, fecal streptococcus, surfac- tants (MBAS), residual chlorine, fluorides, and potassium; and testing with fluorometric dyes or conducting in-storm sewer inspections where safety and other considerations allow. The description shall include the location of storm sewers that have been identified for the evaluation; 
(IV) A description of procedures to prevent, contain and respond to spills that may discharge into the municipal separate storm sewer; 
(V) A description of a program to promote, publi- cize, and facilitate public reporting of the presence of illicit discharges or water quality impacts associated with dis- charges from municipal separate storm sewers; 
(VI) A description of educational activities, public information activities, and other appropriate activities to facilitate the proper management and disposal of used oil and toxic materials; and 
(VII) A description of controls to limit infiltration of seepage from municipal sanitary sewers to municipal sepa- rate storm sewer systems where necessary; 
C. A description of a program to monitor and control pollutants in storm water discharges to municipal systems from municipal landfills, hazardous waste treatment, dispos- al and recovery facilities, industrial facilities that are subject to Section 313 of Title III of SARA and industrial facilities that the municipal permit applicant determines are contribut- ing a substantial pollutant loading to the municipal storm sewer system. The program shall— 
(I) Identify priorities and procedures for inspections and establishing and implementing control measures for the discharges; and 
(II) Describe a monitoring program for storm water discharges associated with the industrial facilities identified in this part to be implemented during the term of the permit, including the submission of quantitative data on the follow- ing constituents: any pollutants limited in effluent guidelines 

Page 1650 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
subcategories, where applicable; any pollutant listed in an existing state operating permit for a facility; oil and grease, COD, pH, BOD5, TSS, total phosphorus, total Kjeldahl nitro- gen, nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen, and any information on parameters that are believed to be present listed on Clean Water Commission Application Form 105D; and 
D. A description of a program to implement and main- tain structural and nonstructural BMPs to reduce pollutants in storm water runoff from construction sites to the munici- pal storm sewer system which shall include: 
(I) A description of procedures for site planning which incorporate consideration of potential water quality impacts; 
(II) A description of requirements for nonstructural and structural BMPs; 
(III) A description of procedures for identifying pri- orities for inspecting sites and enforcing control measures which consider the nature of the construction activity, topography, and the characteristics of soils and receiving water quality; and 
(IV) A description of appropriate educational and training measures for construction site operators; 
5. Assessment of controls. Estimated reductions in loadings of pollutants from discharges of municipal storm sewer constituents from municipal storm sewer systems expected as the result of the municipal storm water quality management program. The assessment also shall identify known impacts of storm water controls on groundwater; 
6. Fiscal analysis. For each fiscal year to be covered by the permit, a fiscal analysis of the necessary capital and operation and maintenance expenditures necessary to accomplish the activities of the programs under paragraphs (4)(B)3. and 4. of this rule. The analysis shall include a description of the source of funds that is proposed to meet the necessary expenditures, including legal restrictions on the use of the funds; 
7. Where more than one (1) legal entity submits an application, the application shall contain a description of the roles and responsibilities of each legal entity and procedures to ensure effective coordination; 
8. Where requirements under paragraphs (4)(A)3. and 4. and (4)(B)2. and 3. of this rule are not practicable or are not applicable, the director may exclude any operator of a dis- charge from a municipal separate storm sewer which is des- ignated under paragraph (1)(C)10. or 14. of this rule from these requirements. The director shall not exclude Independence, Kansas City, Springfield and St. Louis from any of the permit application requirements under this para- graph except where authorized under section (4) of this rule; 
9. Petitions. A. Any operator of a municipal separate storm sewer 
system may petition the director to require a separate state operating permit for any discharge into the municipal sepa- rate storm sewer system. 
B. Any person may petition the director to require a state operating permit for a discharge which is composed entirely of storm water which contributes to a violation of a water quality standard or is a significant contributor of pol- lutants to waters of the state. 
C. The owner or operator, or both, of a municipal sep- arate storm sewer system may petition the director to reduce the census estimates of the population served by the sepa- rate system to account for storm water discharged to com- bined sewers that is treated in a publicly-owned treatment works. In municipalities in which combined sewers are oper- ated, the census estimates of population may be reduced proportional to the fraction of the length of combined sew- ers over the sum of the length of combined sewers and 
municipal separate storm sewers and an applicant has sub- mitted the state operating permit number associated with each discharge point and a map indicating areas served by combined sewers and the location of any combined sewer overflow discharge point. 
D. Any person may petition the director for the desig- nation of a large or medium municipal separate storm sewer system as defined by paragraph (1)(C)10. or 14. of this rule. 
E. The director shall make a final determination on any petition received under subparagraph (4)(B)9.C. within nine- ty (90) days after receiving the petition; and 
10. Municipal separate storm sewer system reports. The operator of a municipal separate storm sewer system or a municipal separate storm sewer that has been designated by the director under paragraph (1)(C)10. or 14. must submit an annual report by the anniversary of the date of the issuance of the permit for the system. The report shall include: 
A. The status of implementing the components of the storm water management program that are established as permit conditions; 
B. Proposed changes to the storm water management programs that are established as permit conditions; 
C. Revisions, if necessary, to the assessment of con- trols and the fiscal analysis reported in the permit applica- tion; 
D. A summary of data, including monitoring data, that is accumulated throughout the reporting year; 
E. Annual expenditures during reporting period and budget for year following each annual report; 
F. A summary describing the number and nature of enforcement actions, inspections, and public education pro- grams; and 
G. Identifications of water quality improvements or degradation.] 
(A) All Phase I large and medium MS4s were determined in accordance with the 1990 census. Application requirements for new Phase I large and medium MS4s based on the 1990 census were in accordance with 40 CFR 122.26(d), November 16, 1990, as published by the EPA Docket Center, EPA West 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20004, are incorpo- rated by reference. This rule does not incorporate any subse- quent amendments or additions. 
(B) Reapplication minimum requirements for large and medi- um MS4s are as follows: 
1. Name and mailing address of the permittee(s) that oper- ate the MS4; 
2. Names and titles of the primary administrative and tech- nical contacts for the municipal permittee(s); 
3. Minimum application requirements as established in 40 CFR 122.21(f), April 1, 1983, as published by the EPA Docket Center, EPA West 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20004, are incorporated by reference. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions; 
4. Any proposed changes or improvements to the stormwater management program, including monitoring activities for the upcoming five (5) year term of the permit unless the proposed changes have already been submitted in the most recent annual report; and 
5. If applicable, any changes in co-applicants/co-permittees. 
(5) Application Requirements for Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer (Small MS4) Discharges. 
(D) Operating permits for Small MS4s will contain the mini- mum requirements as established in 40 CFR part 122.34, December 9, 2016, as published by the EPA Docket Center, EPA West 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington DC, 20004, are incorporated by reference. This rule does not incorporate any 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1651 

subsequent amendments or additions. 
(6) Permit Requirements. (A) The director may issue a general permit for storm water dis- 
charges in accordance with the following: 1. The general permit shall be written to cover a category of dis- 
charges described in the permit except those covered by individual permits within a geographic area. The area shall correspond to exist- ing geographic or political boundaries, such as— 
A. Designated planning areas under Sections 208 and 303 of the Federal Clean Water Act; 
B. City, county, or state political boundaries or special sewer districts chartered by the state; 
C. State highway systems; and 
D. Any other appropriate division or combination of bound- aries; 
2. The general permit shall be written to regulate a category of point sources if the sources all— 
A. Involve the same or substantially similar types of opera- tions; 
B. Discharge the same types of wastes; C. Require the same operating conditions; D. Require the same or similar monitoring; and E. In the opinion of the director, are more appropriately con- 
trolled under a general permit than under individual permits; 3. General permits may be issued, modified, revoked, and reis- sued or terminated in accordance with applicable requirements of this rule and the permit. To be included under a general permit, a permittee must submit an application on forms supplied by the 
department; 4. The director may require any person authorized by a general 
permit to apply for and obtain an individual operating permit. Any interested person may petition the director to require a permittee to apply for an individual permit. Cases where an individual operating permit may be required include, but are not limited to, the following: 
A. Effluent limitation guidelines are promulgated for point sources covered by a general state operating permit; 
B. The discharge(s) is a significant contributor of pollutants. In making this determination, the director may consider the follow- ing factors: 
(I) The location of the discharge with respect to waters of the state; 
(II) The size of the discharge; 
(III) The quantity and nature of the pollutants discharged to waters of the state; and 
(IV) Other relevant factors; C. The discharge(s) is a significant contributor of pollution 
which impairs the beneficial uses of the receiving stream; D. The discharger is not in compliance with the conditions of 
the general operating permit; or E. A water quality management plan containing requirements 
applicable to point sources is approved; 5. Any owner or operator authorized by a general permit may 
request to be excluded from the coverage of the general permit by applying for an individual permit. The owner or operator shall sub- mit an application with reasons supporting the request to the director. The request shall be granted by issuing an individual permit if the reasons cited by the owner or operator are adequate to support the request. 
A. When an individual operating permit is issued to an owner or operator otherwise subject to a general operating permit, the applicability of the general permit to the individual operating permit- tee is automatically terminated on the effective date of the individual permit. 
B. A source excluded from a general permit solely because it already has an individual permit may request that the individual per- mit be revoked and that it be issued a general permit. Upon revoca- tion of the individual permit and issuance of the general permit to the permittee, the general permit shall apply to the source. The source 
shall be included under the general permit only if it meets all the requirements for coverage under the general permit; 
6. Petitions may be submitted to the director requesting the development of a general permit for a group of facilities or activities meeting the criteria listed in paragraph [(5)(A)1.] (2)(B)1. 
A. Information required in a petition must include: (I) A full description of the group including names, addresses, and locations and the industrial activities conducted by 
group members; (II) Any significant materials stored, used, loaded, 
unloaded, treated, or disposed outdoors at these facilities; (III) The existence and permit status of any other waste- 
water discharges from the group; (IV) Analytical data which exists for any group members’ 
storm water runoff; (V) A summary of the history of spills, leaks, and com- 
plaints relating to significant materials used, stored, treated, or dis- posed of on these facilities; and 
(VI) Management practices used to prevent or minimize materials contacting storm water. 
B. Within ninety (90) days of receipt of the petition, the direc- tor shall notify the applicant that— 
(I) A general permit will be developed; (II) A general permit will not be developed and reason; or (III) Further information is required to make a decision; 
and C. If the director has indicated that a general permit will be 
developed for specific facilities/activities, application for general permit as indicated in 10 CSR 20-6.010(13) may be submitted in lieu of an individual industrial storm water runoff permit application. 
7. General permits shall [contain BMP requirements and/or monitoring and reporting requirements to keep the storm water from being contaminated] have conditions to meet any applicable technology or water quality based standard; 
[8. A general permit will be issued to cover the geo- graphical area of any city or county government that has a land disturbance program in place that has been approved by the department. The general permit will require that the per- son(s) disturbing the land comply with the conditions of the locally-approved land disturbance program. Permittees who wish to be covered by this general permit and who comply with the locally-approved program must submit a state gen- eral permit and a one hundred fifty dollar ($150) permit fee to the department. Receipt of the application and fee shall fulfill the state permit requirements for the applicant. In the event the approval of the land disturbance program is with- drawn by the department, all activities started after the withdrawal must be permitted under either a site-specific permit or a statewide general permit that covers the activity if one exists; and] 
[9.]8. A general permit will be issued to cover the geographical area of any city, county, or state government agency that performs or contracts for land disturbance activities[, if the agency has a storm water control program approved by the department]. The general permit will be issued for all activities that are conducted within the geographic area under contract by, or performed by, the city, county, or state agency. The applicant will need only to secure one (1) general permit for all activities that occur during the life of the permit. [In the event the approval of the land disturbance program is withdrawn by the department, all activities start- ed after the withdrawal must be permitted under either a site-specific permit or a statewide general permit that covers the activity if one exists.] 
[(C) Site-specific permits for system-wide or jurisdiction- wide separate storm sewers shall contain the following: 
1. Identification of the permit holder; 
2. BMP requirements that are proposed and approved in the city-wide management program; and 
3. Monitoring and reporting requirements. 

Page 1652 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(D) Terms and Conditions of Permits. 1. All storm water discharges shall be consistent with 
the terms and conditions of the storm water permits. 2. For the purpose of inspecting, monitoring, or sam- pling the point source, water contaminant source, or storm water treatment facility for compliance with the Clean Water Law and these rules, the owner or operator of the land dis- turbance site shall allow authorized representatives of the department upon presentation of credentials and at reason- 
able times to— A. Enter upon the premises in which a point source, 
water contaminant source, or storm water treatment facility is located, or in which any records are required to be kept under terms and conditions of the storm water permit; 
B. Have access to or copy any records required to be kept under terms and conditions of the storm water permit; C. Inspect any monitoring equipment or monitoring 
method required in the storm water permit; D. Inspect any collection, treatment, or land applica- 
tion facility covered under the storm water permit; and E. Sample any storm water at any point in the collec- 
tion system or treatment process. 3. Any expansions or modifications which will result in 
new or different characteristics must be reported sixty (60) days before the storm water modification begins. Notification may be accomplished by application for a new storm water permit, or if the change will not significantly alter limitations specified in the permit, by submission of notice to the department of the change. 
4. All reports required by the department shall be signed by a person designated in 10 CSR 20-6.010 or a duly autho- rized representative under 10 CSR 20-6.010. 
5. Other terms and conditions shall be incorporated into the storm water permits if the department determines they are necessary to assure compliance with the Clean Water Law and regulations.] 
AUTHORITY: sections 644.026[, RSMo 2000] and [section] 644.036, RSMo [Supp. 2008] 2016. Original rule filed July 15, 1991, effective Oct. 1, 1992. Amended: Filed Sept. 14, 2001, effec- tive May 30, 2002. Amended: Filed Feb. 3, 2009, effective Oct. 30, 2009. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, Attn: Michael Abbott, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. Comments may be sent with name and address through email to Michael.abbott@dnr.mo.gov. Public comments must be received by August 23, 2018. The public hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 6—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-6.300 Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations. The division is amending sections (2), (3), (4), (6), and (7), deleting sub- sections (7)(A), (7)(B), (7)(E), and (7)(F), and re-lettering accord- ingly. 
PURPOSE: The department is amending this rule to comply with Executive Order 17-03 under the Red Tape Reduction Initiative and to improve clarity of the rule, reduce redundancy, and unneeded or overly burdensome requirements. 
(2) Applicability and Application for Coverage. (E) Operating Permit Applications. This section describes the 
application process and requirements for CAFO operating permits. A separate application for each operating location must be submitted to the department. 
1. The department will not examine the adequacy or efficiency of the structural, mechanical, or electrical components of the waste management systems, only adherence to rules and regulations. The issuance of permits will not include approval of such features. 
2. [Applications for general operating permits should be submitted at least ninety (90) days prior to the start of oper- ation. Applications for site-specific operating permits shall be submitted at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the start of operation.] The application shall include at a mini- mum the following documents: 
A. Title page of engineering report or similar document sealed by a professional engineer including name of the operation, date the report was prepared, name and address of firm preparing the report, seal and signature of the engineer, and a statement indicating the project was designed in accordance with 10 CSR 20-8.300; 
B. Narrative project summary. This shall describe the existing and any proposed modifications to operating conditions including the number of confinement buildings or areas, the total design capacity in animal units and actual animal numbers for each type of animal, and an explanation of the existing and/or proposed modifications to the waste management system; 
C. Include the amount of manure generated annually, storage volume, and days of storage of all manure storage structures, includ- ing mortality composter; 
D. A recent aerial or topographic map showing the extent of the production area including; 
(I) All existing and proposed confinement buildings, open lots, manure storage structures; 
(II) Surface waters and areas subject to a one hundred (100) year flood event within or adjacent to the production area; and (III) Production area setback distances in accordance with 
10 CSR 20-8.300(5)(B); E. Nutrient Management Plan— 
(I) NPDES permit – applications shall include the opera- tions’ nutrient management plan; or 
(II) State no-discharge permit –applications for a new per- mit shall include the operations’ nutrient management plan; 
F. Applications for Class I CAFOs shall also include: (I) An aerial or topographic map that meets the require- 
ment of 10 CSR 20-6.300(3)(C)4.; (II) Proof of neighbor notice to all parties listed in 10 CSR 
20-6.300(3)(C)2. 
[3. For renewal of NPDES operating permits, a copy of the operations nutrient management plan shall be submitted if it has not previously been submitted.] 
[4.]3. When an application is submitted incomplete or any of the required permit documents are deficient, or if additional infor- mation is needed including, but not limited to, engineering design plans, the department will act in one (1) of the following ways: 
A. The department may return the entire permit application back to the applicant for re-submittal; or 
B. The applicant and/or the applicant’s engineer will be noti- fied of the deficiency and will be provided time to address department 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1653 

comments and submit corrections. Processing of the application may be placed on hold until the applicant has corrected identified defi- ciencies. 
[5.]4. Applicants who fail to correct deficiencies and/or fail to satisfy all department comments after two (2) certified department comment letters shall have the application returned as incomplete and the permit fee(s) shall be forfeited. The department will grant rea- sonable time extensions when the applicant requests additional time to respond to department comments, however, such requests must be in writing and must occur within the time frame set by the depart- ment. 
[6.]5. When the department has received all documents and information necessary for a properly completed operating permit application, including appropriate permit fees, the department will, review the application and said documents for compliance with this regulation and 10 CSR 20-8.300 and, if met, act in one (1) of the fol- lowing ways: 
A. For an operation seeking coverage under the state no-dis- charge general operating permit the department will issue the state no-discharge general operating permit; or 
B. For an operation seeking coverage under the NPDES oper- ating permit the department will post for fifteen (15) days on the department’s webpage a notice of the pending CAFO NPDES permit. The notice will include an announcement of the opportunity for pub- lic review and comment on the CAFO’s nutrient management plan and draft NPDES permit. The department will consider all com- ments before issuing the operating permit. 
(3) Operating Permit Requirements. These requirements apply to all operating permits unless otherwise specified. 
(B) Buffer Distances. Buffer distances are to be in accordance with Section 640.710 RSMo. unless exempted below: 
[1. All Class I concentrated animal feeding operations shall maintain a buffer distance between the nearest animal confinement building or wastewater storage structure and any existing public building or occupied residence. The pub- lic building or occupied residence will be considered existing if it is being used prior to the start of the neighbor notice requirements of subsection (C) of this section or thirty (30) days prior to the date the department receives an operating permit application, whichever is later. Buffer distances shall be— 
A. One thousand feet (1000’) for concentrated animal feeding operations between 1,000 and 2,999 animal units (Class IC operations); 
B. Two thousand feet (2,000’) for concentrated ani- mal feeding operations between 3,000 and 6,999 animal units (Class IB operations); and 
C. Three thousand feet (3,000’) for concentrated ani- mal feeding operations equal to or greater than 7,000 animal units (Class IA).] 
[2.]1. When a CAFO proposes an expansion or modification but does not increase to a larger classification size, the buffer dis- tance requirements shall be applicable only to the proposed confine- ment buildings and wastewater storage structures unless exempted by paragraph [3.] 2. of this subsection. Neighbor notice requirements of subsection (C) of this section shall apply to all existing and proposed confinement buildings and wastewater storage structures. If the pro- posed expansion or modification results in an increase to a larger classification size, the buffer distance and neighbor notice require- ment of the larger classification size will apply to all existing and proposed confinement buildings and wastewater storage structures unless exempted by paragraph 4. of this subsection. 
[3.]2. A concentrated animal feeding operation and any future modification or expansion of a CAFO is exempt from buffer distance requirements, but not neighbor notice requirements, when it meets all of the following criteria: 
A. The CAFO was in existence prior to June 25, 1996; and 
B. The CAFO does not expand to a larger classification size. [4.]3. When existing animal feeding operations or concentrated animal feeding operations expand to a larger class size, the buffer distances shall not apply to the portion of the operation in existence 
as of June 25, 1996. [5.]4. Buffer distances are not applicable to residences owned 
by the concentrated animal feeding operation or a residence from which a written agreement for operation is obtained from the owner of that residence. When shorter buffer distances are proposed by the operation and allowed by the department, the written agreement for a shorter buffer distance shall be recorded with the county recorder and filed in the chain of title for the property of the land owner agree- ing to the shorter buffer distance. 
[6. The department may, upon review of the information contained in the operating permit application, including, but not limited to, the prevailing winds, topography, and other local environmental factors, authorize a buffer distance which is less than the distance prescribed in this rule. The department’s recommendation shall be sent to the governing body of the county in which such site is proposed. The department’s authorized buffer distance shall become effec- tive unless the county governing body rejects the depart- ment’s recommendation by a majority vote at the next meet- ing of the governing body after the recommendation is received.] 
(C) Neighbor Notice Requirements. Neighbor notice is to be con- ducted in accordance with section 640.715, RSMo. 
[1. Prior to filing an application for an operating permit with the department for a new or expanding Class I concen- trated animal feeding operation, the following information shall be provided by way of a letter to all the parties listed in paragraph (3)(C)2. of this section: 
A. The number of animals designed for the operation; 
B. A brief summary of the waste handling plan and general layout of the operation; 
C. The location and number of acres of the operation; 
D. Name, address, and telephone number of regis- tered agent or owner; 
E. Notice that the department will accept written comments for a thirty- (30-) day period. The department will accept written comments from the public for thirty (30) days after receipt of the operating permit application; and 
F. The address of the department office receiving comments. 
2. The neighbor notice shall be provided to the follow- ing: 
A. The department’s Water Protection Program; 
B. The county governing body; and] [C.]1. [All adjoining owners of property located within 
one and one-half (1 1/2) times the buffer distances specified in subsection (3)(B).] Distances are to be measured from the near- est animal confinement building or wastewater storage structure to the adjoining property line. 
[3.]2. [The operating permit applicant shall submit to the department proof the above notification has been sent. An a]Acceptable forms of proof for submittal that neighbor notice was sent include copies of mail delivery confirmation receipts, return receipts, or other similar documentation. 
[4.]3. All concentrated animal feeding operations shall submit, as part of the operating permit application, an aerial or topographic map of the production area. The maps shall show the operation lay- out, buffer distances, property lines, and property owners within one and one-half (1 1/2) times the buffer distance. 
[5.]4. The neighbor notice will expire if an operating permit application has not been received by the department within twelve (12) months of initiating the neighbor notice requirements. 
(F) Annual Reports. This section is required for NPDES operating permits only. Annual reports shall comply with the federal regu- lation 40 CFR 122.42(e)(4), “Annual reporting requirements for 

Page 1654 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
CAFOs,” Jan. 8, 2018, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, which hereby incorporated by reference and does not include later amendments or additions. 
[1. NPDES operating permits shall require the submis- sion of an annual report that includes: 
A. The number and type of animals confined at the operation; 
B. Estimated amount of total manure, litter, and process wastewater generated by the operation in the previ- ous twelve (12) months; 
C. Estimated amount of total manure, litter, and process wastewater transferred to other persons by the operation in the previous twelve (12) months; 
D. Total number of acres for land application covered by the nutrient management plan; 
E. Total number of acres under control of the opera- tion that were used for land application of manure, litter, and process wastewater in the previous twelve (12) months; 
F. Summary of all manure, litter, and process waste- water discharges from the production area to waters of the state that have occurred in the previous twelve (12) months, including date, time, and approximate volume; 
G. A statement indicating whether the current version of the CAFO’s nutrient management plan was developed or approved by a certified nutrient management planner; and 
H. The actual crop(s) planted and actual yield(s) for each field, the actual nitrogen and phosphorus content of the manure, litter, and process wastewater, the data used to calculate and the results of annual calculations for maximum amount of manure, litter, and process wastewater to be applied, the amount of manure, litter, and process waste- water applied to each field during the previous twelve (12) months, the results of any soil tests for nitrogen and phos- phorus taken during the previous twelve (12) months, and the amount of any supplemental fertilizer applied during the previous twelve (12) months.] 
(H) Additional Requirements for Class IACAFOs only. Conduct inspections in accordance with section 640.725, RSMo, in addi- tion to the following: 
1. [The owner or operator of any Class IA concentrated animal feeding operation with a wet handling system which also utilizes a flush system shall employ one (1) or more per- sons who shall visually inspect the gravity outfall lines, recy- cle pump stations, recycle force mains, and appurtenances for any release to any containment structure. Visual inspec- tions shall be made at least once per week. The i]Inspections shall also include the structural integrity of the collection system and containment structures along with any unauthorized discharges from the flush and wet handling systems. Records shall be maintained by the facility for a minimum of three (3) years on forms approved by the department. 
[2. Any unauthorized discharges that cross the property line of the facility, or enter the waters of the state from a Class IA concentrated animal feeding operation with a wet handling system that also utilizes a flush system, shall be reported to the department and to all adjoining property owners of the facility within twenty-four (24) hours. 
3. Class IA concentrated animal feeding operation with a wet handling system which also utilizes a flush system shall receive at least one (1) on-site inspection by the department each quarter. 
4. All Class IA concentrated animal feeding operations with a wet handling system which also utilizes a flush sys- tem shall have a secondary containment structure(s) or earthen dam(s). The] Secondary containment structure(s) or earthen dam(s) shall be sized to contain a minimum volume equal to 
the maximum capacity of flushing in any twenty-four- (24-) hour period from all gravity outfall lines, recycle pump stations, and recy- cle force mains. 
[5. All Class IA concentrated animal feeding operations with a wet handling system which also utilizes a flush sys- tem shall have an electronic or mechanical shut-off in the event of pipe stoppage or backflow. For new facilities, the shut-off shall be included as part of the construction permit application.] 
[6.]2. Class IA concentrated animal feeding operations (both new and those operations that wish to expand to Class IA size) are prohibited from the watersheds of the Current, Jacks Fork, and Eleven Point Rivers as described in 10 CSR 20-6.300(1)(B)9.D. 
[7.]3. [The owner or operator shall visually inspect once per day any lagoon whose water level is less than twelve (12) inches from the emergency spillway. The inspection shall note the level of water below the emergency spillway.] A record of [these] inspections when the water level is less than twelve (12) inches from the emergency spillway shall be included with the operations annual report. 
(4) Design Standards and Effluent Limitations. (A) Effluent Limitations Applicable to All Class I CAFOs. 
1. New and expanding CAFOs [that apply for an operating permit shall have manure, litter, and process wastewater management systems] shall designed and constructed in accor- dance with [the CAFO manure storage design standard rule] 10 CSR 20-8.300. 
2. Effluent limits for subsurface waters shall be in accordance with 10 CSR 20-7.015(7)(E). 
3. NPDES operating permits shall also comply with effluent limitations as set forth in 40 CFR Part 412, Subpart A through Subpart D, July 30, 2012, without any later amendments or addi- tions, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, which are hereby incorporated by refer- ence. 
4. There shall be no discharge of manure, litter, or process wastewater to waters of the state from a CAFO as a result of the land application of manure, litter, or process wastewater to land applica- tion areas under the operational control of the CAFO, except where it is an agricultural storm water discharge. When manure, litter, or process wastewater has been land applied in accordance with subsec- tion (3)(G) of this rule, a precipitation-related discharge of manure, litter, or process wastewater from land areas under the control of the CAFO is considered to be an agricultural storm water discharge. 
5. A chronic weather event is a series of wet weather events and conditions that can delay planting, harvesting, and prevent land appli- cation and dewatering practices at wastewater storage structures. When wastewater storage structures are in danger of an overflow due to a chronic weather event, CAFO owners [shall] should take reasonable steps to lower the liquid level in the structure through land application, or other suitable means, to prevent overflow from the storage struc- ture. Reasonable steps may include, but are not limited to, following the department’s current guidance on “Wet Weather Management Practices for CAFOs.” These practices [shall be] are designed specif- ically to protect water quality during wet weather periods. A discharge resulting from a land application conducted during wet weather condi- tions is not considered an agricultural stormwater discharge and is sub- ject to permit requirements. The department will determine, within a reasonable time frame, when a chronic weather event is occurring for any given county in Missouri. The determination will be based upon an evaluation of the one-in-ten (1- in-10) year return rainfall frequency over a ten- (10-) day, ninety- (90-) day, one hundred eighty- (180-) day, and three hundred sixty five- (365-) day operating period. 
(6) Closure of Waste Storage Structures. (A) [Facilities] Class I operations that cease operation, or plan 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1655 

to close lagoons and other waste storage structures, shall comply with 10 CSR 20-6.010 as well as the requirements in this section— [1. Class I concentrated animal feeding operations which cease operation shall continue to maintain a valid operating permit or until all lagoons and waste storage struc- tures are properly closed according to a closure plan 
approved by the Department; and] [2.]1. Other concentrated animal feeding operations that cease 
operation shall either close the waste storage structures in accordance with the closure requirements in subsection (6)(B) of this rule or shall continue to maintain all storage structures so that there is not a discharge to waters of the state. 
(B) Closure Requirements— 1. Lagoons and waste storage structures shall be closed by 
removal and land application of all wastewater and sludge[; 2. The removed wastewater and sludge shall be land applied] at agricultural rates for fertilizer not to exceed the maxi- mum nutrient utilization of the land application site and vegetation grown and shall be applied at controlled rates so that there will be no 
discharge to waters of the state; and [3.]2. After removal and proper land application of wastewater 
and sludge, the earthen basins may be demolished by removing the berms, grading, and establish at least seventy percent (70%) plant density over one hundred percent (100%) of the site so as to provide erosion control, or the basin may be left in place for future use as a farm pond or similar uses. 
(7) Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation Indemnity Fund for Class IA CAFO in accordance with section 640.740, RSMo. 
[(A) Class IA concentrated animal feeding operations uti- lizing flush systems shall pay an annual fee of ten cents (10¢) per animal unit to the Department for deposit in the Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations Indemnity Fund. 
(B) The annual fee shall be based upon the animal unit per- mitted capacity of the facility.] 
[(C)](A) [The annual fee shall be collected each year for ten (10) years on the anniversary date of the operating per- mit.] For facilities permitted after June 25, 1996, the annual fee shall commence on the first anniversary of the operating permit. [The annual fee for facilities permitted prior to June 25, 1996, shall commence on the first full year anniversary of the permit following June 25, 1996.] 
[(D)](B) [In the event the department determines that a Class IA facility has been successfully closed by the owner or operator, all monies paid by such operations into the Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation Indemnity Fund shall be returned to the operation.] In no event, [however,] shall [this] a refund exceed the unencumbered balance in the Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation Indemnity Fund. 
[(E) The fees referenced in section (7) shall be paid by a check or money order and made payable to the State of Missouri, Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation Indemnity Fund. In the event a check used for the payment of operating fees is returned to the department marked insufficient funds, the person forwarding the check shall be given fifteen (15) days to correct the insufficiency. 
(F) Fees shall be submitted to Department of Natural Resources, Water Pollution Control Program, Permit Section, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102.] 
[(G)](C) Each payment shall identify the following: state operating permit number, payment period, and permittee’s name and address. Persons who own or operate more than one (1) operation may submit one (1) check to cover all annual fees, but are responsible for sub- mitting the appropriate information to allow proper credit for each permit file account. 
[(H)](D) Annual fees are the responsibility of the permittee. Failure to receive a billing notice is not an excuse for failure to remit the fees. 
AUTHORITY: sections 640.710[, RSMo 2000,] and [section] 644.026, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed June 1, 1995, effective Jan. 30, 1996. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, Water Protection Program, Attn: Greg Caldwell, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. Comments may be sent with name and address through email to greg.caldwell@dnr.mo.gov. Public comments must be received by August 23, 2018. The public hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m. on August 15, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Elm Street Conference Center, Bennett Spring Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 7—Water Quality 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 20-7.015 Effluent Regulations. The division is amending subsections (1)(A), (2)(A), (2)(C), (3)(A), (3)(B), (3)(E), (3)(F), (4)(A), (4)(B), (4)(C), (5)(B), (6)(A), (7)(A), (8)(A), (8)(B), (9)(A)– (D), (9)(G), (9)(I), (9)(L), add subsection (3)(G), delete subsection (7)(D), and reletter as needed. 
PURPOSE: This rule sets forth the limits for various pollutants which are discharged to the various waters of the state. The two previous rules 10 CSR 20-6.050 and 10 CSR 20-7.010 have been rescinded and this amendment combines certain aspects of both rules and modifies the format of the effluent regulations. This rule also complies with the latest changes to the Federal Clean Water Act, P.L. 97-117 (1981). 
(1) Designations of Waters of the State. (A) Definitions. 
1. Acute Toxicity Test—a test used to determine the concentra- tion of an effluent that causes an adverse effect (usually death) in a group of test organisms during a short-term exposure. 
2. Allowable Effluent Concentration—the concentration of a toxicant or the parameter toxicity in the receiving water after mixing, sometimes referred to as the receiving water concentration or the in- stream waste concentration. 
3. Chronic Toxicity Test—A short-term test, usually ninety-six (96) hours or longer in duration, in which sub-lethal effects such as reduced growth or reproduction rates are measured in addition to lethality. 
4. Representative sample— a small quantity whose characteristics represent the nature and volume of the whole[. For permitting pur- poses representative sampling shall be consistent with] as described in 40 CFR Part 122.48 September 26, 1984, as published by the Office of the Federal Resister, National Archives and Records Administration, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20408 which is hereby incorporated by reference and does not include later amendments or additions. 
5. Toxic Unit—a measure of effluent toxicity generally expressed as acute toxicity unit or chronic toxicity unit. The larger 

Page 1656 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
the toxicity unit, the greater the toxicity. 6. Toxic Unit–Acute—one-hundred (100) times the reciprocal of 
the effluent concentration that causes fifty percent (50%) of the organisms to die in an acute toxicity test. 
7. Toxic Unit–Chronic—one-hundred (100) times the reciprocal of the highest effluent concentration that causes no observable effect on or inhibitions up to twenty-five (25%) of the test organism in a chronic toxicity test. 
(2) Effluent Limitations for the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers. In addition to the requirements of section (9) of this rule, the following limitations represent the maximum amount of pollutants which may be discharged from any point source, water contaminant source, or wastewater treatment facility. 
(A) Discharges from wastewater treatment facilities which receive primarily domestic waste or from publicly-owned treatment works (POTWs) shall undergo treatment sufficient to conform to the follow- ing limitations: 
1. Biochemical Oxygen Demand5 (BOD5) and Total Suspended Solids (TSS) equal to or less than a monthly average of thirty mil- ligrams per liter (30 mg/L) and a weekly average of forty-five mil- ligrams per liter (45 mg/L); 
2. pH shall be maintained in the range from six to nine (6–9) standard units in accordance with 40 CFR 133.102 “Secondary Treatment Regulation” October 16, 1984, as published by the Office of the Federal Resister, National Archives and Records Administration, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20408 which is hereby incorporated by reference and does not include later amendments or additions; 
3. Exceptions to paragraphs (2)(A)1. and 2. of this rule are as follows: 
A. If the facility is a wastewater lagoon, the TSS shall be equal to or less than a monthly average of eighty milligrams per liter (80 mg/L) and a weekly average of one hundred twenty milligrams per liter (120 mg/L) and the pH shall be maintained above six 6.0, and the BOD5 shall be equal to or less than a monthly average of forty-five milligrams per liter (45 mg/L) and a weekly average of sixty-five milligrams per liter (65 mg/L); 
B. If the facility is a trickling filter plant the BOD5 and TSS shall be equal to or less than a monthly average of forty-five mil- ligrams per liter (45 mg/L) and a weekly average of sixty-five mil- ligrams per liter (65 mg/L); 
C. Where the use of effluent limitations set forth in this sec- tion is known or expected to produce an effluent that will endanger or violate water quality, the department will set specific effluent lim- itations for individual dischargers to protect the water quality of the receiving streams[. When a waste load allocation is conducted for a stream or stream segment, all permits for discharges in the study area shall be modified to reflect the limits estab- lished in the study in accordance with any applicable com- pliance schedule]; 
D. The department may require more stringent limitations than authorized in paragraphs (2)(A)1. and 2. and subparagraphs (2)(A)3.A., B., and C. of this rule under the following conditions: 
(I) If the facility is an existing facility, the department may set the BOD5 and TSS limits based upon an analysis of the past per- formance, rounded up to the next five milligrams per liter (5 mg/L) range; and 
(II) If the facility is a new facility, the department may set the BOD5 and TSS limits based upon the design capabilities of the plant considering geographical and climatic conditions; 
(a) A design capability study has been conducted for new lagoon systems. The study reflects that the effluent limitations should be BOD5 equal to or less than a monthly average of forty-five milligrams per liter (45 mg/L) and a weekly average of sixty-five milligrams per liter (65 mg/L) and TSS equal to or less than a month- ly average of seventy milligrams per liter (70 mg/L) and a weekly average of one hundred ten milligrams per liter (110 mg/L). 
(b) A design capability study has been conducted for new trickling filter systems and the study reflects that the effluent limitations should be BOD5 and TSS equal to or less than a monthly average of forty milligrams per liter (40 mg/L) and a weekly average of sixty milligrams per liter (60 mg/L); and 
[4. Sludges removed in the treatment process shall not be discharged. Sludges shall be routinely removed from the wastewater treatment facility and disposed of or used in accordance with a sludge management practice approved by the department; and] 
[5.]4. When the wastewater treatment process causes nitrifica- tion which affects the BOD5 reading, the permittee can petition the department to substitute carbonaceous BOD5 in lieu of regular BOD5 testing. If the department concurs that nitrification is occurring, the department will set a carbonaceous BOD5 at five milligrams per liter (5 mg/L) less than the regular BOD5 in the operating permit. 
(C) Monitoring Requirements. 1. The department will develop a wastewater and sludge sam- 
pling program based on design flow [that shall require, at a min- imum, one (1) wastewater sample per year for each fifty thousand (50,000) gallons per day (gpd) of effluent, or frac- tion thereof, except that—] and other site-specific factors. Sampling frequency shall not exceed once per day. 
[A. Point sources that discharge less than twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd may only be required to submit an annual report;] 
[B.]A. The department may establish less frequent sampling requirements for point sources that produce an effluent that does not exhibit high variability and consistently complies with the applicable effluent limit; and 
[C.]B. Sludge sampling will be established in the permit. [2. Sampling frequency shall be representative of the discharge during the period the sampling covers (daily, week- 
ly, monthly, seasonally, etc.).] [3.]2. [Sample] Unless otherwise specified in the operating 
permit, sample types shall be [as follows]: A. [Samples collected from] Grab samples for lagoons 
[may be grab samples] and recirculating media beds; B. [Samples collected from] Twenty-four- (24-) hour composite samples for mechanical plants [shall be twenty-four (24)-hour composite samples, unless otherwise specified in 
the operating permit]; and C. Sludge samples will be grab samples unless otherwise 
specified in the operating permit. [4.]3. The monitoring frequency and sample types stated in 
subsection (2)(C) of this rule are minimum requirements. [The per- mit writer shall establish monitoring frequencies and sam- pling types to fulfill the site-specific informational needs of the department.] 
(3) Effluent Limitations for the Lakes and Reservoirs. (A) In addition to the requirements of section (9) of this rule, the following limitations represent the maximum amount of pollutants which may be discharged from any point source, water contaminant source, or wastewater treatment facility to a lake or reservoir desig- nated in 10 CSR 20-7.031 as L2 and L3 which is publicly owned. Releases to lakes and reservoirs include discharges into streams one- half (1/2) stream mile (.80 km) before the stream enters the lake as 
measured to its conservation pool. 1. Discharges from wastewater treatment facilities which 
receive primarily domestic waste or from POTWs shall undergo treatment sufficient to conform to the following limitations: 
A. BOD5 and TSS equal to or less than a monthly average of twenty milligrams per liter (20 mg/L) and a weekly average of thirty milligrams per liter (30 mg/L); 
B. pH shall be maintained in the range from six to nine (6– 9) standard units in accordance with 40 CFR 133.102 “Secondary Treatment Regulation” October 16, 1984, as published by the 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1657 

Office of the Federal Resister, National Archives and Records Administration, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20408 which is hereby incorporated by reference and does not include later amendments or additions; 
C. Where the use of effluent limitations set forth in section (3) of this rule are reasonably expected to exceed applicable water quality standards, the department may either—conduct waste load allocation studies in order to arrive at a limitation which protects the water quality of the state or set specific effluent limitations for indi- vidual dischargers to protect the water quality of the receiving streams[. When a waste load allocation study is conducted for a stream or stream segment, all permits for discharges in the study area shall be modified to reflect the limits estab- lished in the waste load allocation study in accordance with any applicable compliance schedule]; and 
[D. Sludges removed in the treatment process shall not be discharged. Sludges shall be routinely removed from the wastewater treatment facility and disposed of or used in accordance with a sludge management practice approved by the department; and] 
[E.]D. When the wastewater treatment process causes nitrifi- cation which affects the BOD5 reading, the permittee can petition the department to substitute carbonaceous BOD5 in lieu of regular BOD5 testing. If the department concurs that nitrification is occurring, the department will set a carbonaceous BOD5 at five milligrams per liter (5 mg/L) less than the regular BOD5 in the operating permit. 
(B) Monitoring Requirements. 1. The department will develop a wastewater and sludge sam- 
pling program based on design flow [that will require, at a mini- mum, one (1) wastewater sample per year for each twenty- five thousand (25,000) gpd of effluent, or fraction thereof, except that—] and other site-specific factors. Sampling frequen- cy shall not exceed once per day. 
[A. Point sources that discharge less than five thou- sand (5,000) gpd may only be required to submit an annual report;] 
[B.]A. The department may establish less frequent sampling requirements for point sources that produce an effluent that does not exhibit high variability and consistently complies with the applicable effluent limit; and 
[C.]B. Sludge sampling will be established in the permit. [2. Sampling frequency shall be representative of the discharge during the period the sampling covers (daily, week- 
ly, monthly, seasonally, etc.).] [3.]2. [Sample] Unless otherwise specified in the operating 
permit, sample types shall be [as follows]: A. [Samples collected from] Grab samples for lagoons 
and recirculating media beds [may be grab samples]; B. [Samples collected from] Twenty-four- (24-) hour composite samples for mechanical plants [shall be twenty-four (24)-hour composite samples, unless otherwise specified in 
the operating permit]; and C. Sludge samples [shall] will be grab samples unless other- 
wise specified in the operating permit. [4.]3. The monitoring frequency and sample types stated in 
paragraphs (3)(B)1. through [3.] 2. of this rule are minimum requirements. [The permit writer shall establish monitoring fre- quencies and sampling types to fulfill the site-specific infor- mational needs of the department.] 
(E) In addition to other requirements in this section, discharges to Lake Taneycomo and its tributaries between Table Rock Dam and Power Site Dam (and excluding the discharges from the dams) shall not exceed five tenths milligrams per liter (0.5 mg/L) of phosphorus as a monthly average. Discharges meeting both the following condi- tions shall be exempt from this requirement: 
1. Those permitted prior to May 9, 1994; and 
2. Those with design flows of less than twenty-two thousand five hundred (22,500) gpd. [All existing facilities whose capac- 
ity is increased would be subject to phosphorus limitations.] 
The department may allow the construction and operation of interim facilities without phosphorus control provided their discharges are connected to regional treatment facilities with phosphorus control not later than three (3) years after authorization. [Discharges in the White River basin and outside of the area designated above for phosphorus limitations shall be monitored for phosphorus discharges, and the frequency of monitoring shall be the same as that for BOD5 and TSS, but not less than annually. The department may reduce the frequency of monitoring if the monitoring data is sufficient for water quality planning purposes.] 
(F) In addition to other requirements in this section, discharges to Table Rock Lake watershed, defined as hydrologic units numbered 11010001 and 11010002, shall not exceed five-tenths milligrams per liter (0.5 mg/L) of phosphorus as a monthly average [except those existing discharges with design flows of less than twenty- two thousand five hundred (22,500) gpd permitted prior to November 30, 1999, unless the design flow is increased]. Discharges meeting both of the following conditions are exempt from this requirement. 
1. Those permitted prior to November 30, 1999; and 
2. Those with design flows less than twenty-two thousand five hundred (22,500) gpd. 
(G) Discharges in the White River basin and outside of the areas identified in (3)(E) and (F) of this section for phosphorus limitations shall be monitored for phosphorus discharges, and the frequency of monitoring shall be the same as that for BOD5 and TSS, but not less than annually. The department may reduce the frequency of monitoring if the monitoring data is sufficient for water quality planning purposes. 
(4) Effluent Limitations for Losing Streams. (A) [Discharges to losing streams shall be permitted only 
after other alternatives including land application, discharge] 
Prior to discharging to a losing stream, alternatives such as relo- cating the discharge to a gaining stream, and connection to a region- al wastewater treatment facility [have been] are to be evaluated and determined to be unacceptable for environmental and/or economic reasons. 
(B) In addition to the requirements of section (9) of this rule, each permit for a discharge from a wastewater treatment facility to a losing stream, shall be written using the limitations contained in subsections (4)(B) and (C) of this rule in accordance with any applicable compli- ance schedule. Discharges from private wastewater treatment facili- ties which receive primarily domestic waste, industrial sources that treat influents containing significant amounts of organic loading, or POTWs permitted under this section shall undergo treatment suffi- cient to conform to the following limitations: 
1. BOD5 equal to or less than a monthly average of ten mil- ligrams per liter (10 mg/L) and a weekly average of fifteen mil- ligrams per liter (15 mg/L); 
2. TSS equal to or less than a monthly average of fifteen mil- ligrams per liter (15 mg/L) and a weekly average of twenty mil- ligrams per liter (20 mg/L); 
3. pH shall be maintained in the range from six to nine (6–9) standard units in accordance with 40 CFR 133.102 “Secondary Treatment Regulation” October 16, 1984, as published by the Office of the Federal Resister, National Archives and Records Administration, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20408 which is hereby incorporated by reference and does not include later amendments or additions; 
4. All chlorinated effluent discharges to losing streams or with- in two (2) stream miles flow distance upstream of a losing stream shall also be dechlorinated prior to discharge; 
[5. Sludges removed in the treatment process shall not be discharged. Sludges shall be routinely removed from the wastewater treatment facility and disposed of or used in 

Page 1658 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
accordance with a sludge management practice approved by the department]; 
[6.]5. When the wastewater treatment process causes nitrifica- tion which affects the BOD5 reading, the permittee can petition the department to substitute carbonaceous BOD5 in lieu of regular BOD5 testing. If the department concurs that nitrification is occurring, the department will set a carbonaceous BOD5 at five milligrams per liter (5 mg/L) less than the regular BOD5 in the operating permit; and 
[7.]6. For situations in which nitrates in a discharge can be rea- sonably expected to impact specific drinking water wells, the concen- tration of nitrates in the discharge shall be limited to an average monthly limit of ten milligrams per liter (10 mg/L) as nitrogen and a maximum daily limit of twenty milligrams per liter (20 mg/L). Applicants may conduct a study in the same manner as the Missouri Risk-Based Corrective Action Technical Guidance published in 2006 to determine if nitrate limits are necessary to protect groundwater. In such cases, applicants shall submit a study plan for approval prior to the study, and submit all findings as part of their permit application. 
(C) Monitoring Requirements. 1. The department will develop a wastewater and sludge sam- 
pling program based on design flow [that shall require, at a min- imum, one (1) wastewater sample per year for each twenty- five thousand (25,000) gpd of effluent, or fraction thereof, except that—] and other site-specific factors. Sampling frequen- cy shall not exceed once per day. 
[A. Point sources that discharge less than five thou- sand (5,000) gpd may only be required to submit an annual report;] 
[B.]A. The department may establish less frequent sampling requirements for point sources that produce an effluent that does not exhibit high variability and consistently complies with the applicable effluent limit; and 
[C.]B. Sludge samples will be established in the permit. [2. Sampling frequency shall be representative of the discharge during the period the sampling covers (daily, week- 
ly, monthly, seasonally, etc.).] [3.]2. Unless otherwise specified in the operating permit, 
[S]sample types shall be [as follows]: A. [Samples collected from] Grab samples for lagoons 
and recirculating [sand filters may be grab samples] media beds; 
B. [Samples collected from] Twenty-four- (24-) hour composite samples for mechanical plants [shall be twenty-four (24)-hour composite samples, unless otherwise specified in the operating permit]; and 
C. Sludge samples [shall] will be a grab sample unless oth- erwise specified in the operating permit. 
[4.]3. The monitoring frequency and sample types stated in paragraphs (4)(C)1. through [3.] 2. of this rule are minimum requirements. [The permit writer shall establish monitoring fre- quencies and sampling types to fulfill the site-specific infor- mational needs of the department.] 
(5) Effluent Limitations for Metropolitan No-Discharge Streams. (B) Monitoring Requirements. 
1. The department will develop a wastewater and sludge sam- pling program based on design flow [that shall require, at a min- imum, one (1) wastewater sample per year for each twenty- five thousand (25,000) gpd of effluent, or fraction thereof, except that—] and other site-specific factors. Sampling frequen- cy shall not exceed once per day. 
[A. Point sources that discharge less than five thou- sand (5,000) gpd may only be required to submit an annual report.] 
[B.]A. [Point sources that discharge more than one point three (1.3) mgd will be required, at a minimum, to col- lect fifty-two (52) wastewater samples per year.] The depart- ment may establish less frequent sampling requirements for point 
sources that produce an effluent that does not exhibit high variability and consistently complies with the applicable effluent limit; and 
[C.]B. Sludge sampling will be established in the permit. [2. Sampling frequency shall be representative of the discharge during the period the sampling covers (daily, week- 
ly, monthly, seasonally, etc.).] [3.] 2. Unless otherwise specified in the operating permits, 
[S]sample types shall be [as follows]: A. [Samples collected from] Grab samples for lagoons 
[may be grab samples] and recirculating media beds; B. [Samples collected from] Twenty-four- (24-) hour composite samples for mechanical plants [shall be twenty-four (24)-hour composite samples, unless otherwise specified in 
the operating permit]; and C. Sludge samples [shall] will be a grab sample unless oth- 
erwise specified in the operating permit. [4.]3. The monitoring frequency and sample types stated in 
paragraphs (5)(B)1. through [3.] 2. of this rule are minimum requirements. [The permit writer shall establish monitoring fre- quencies and sampling types to fulfill the site-specific infor- mational needs of the department.] 
(6) Effluent Limitations for Special Streams. (A) Limits for Outstanding National Resource Waters as listed in 
Table D of 10 CSR 20-7.031 and Drainages Thereto. 1. In addition to the requirements of section (9) of this rule, the following limitations represent the maximum amount of pollutants which may be discharged from any point source, water contaminant source, or wastewater treatment facility to waters included in this sec- 
tion. 2. Discharges from wastewater treatment facilities, which 
receive primarily domestic waste, or from POTWs are limited as fol- lows: 
A. New releases from any source are prohibited; 
B. Discharges from sources that existed before June 29, 1974, or if additional stream segments are placed in this section, dis- charges that were permitted at the time of the designation will be allowed. 
3. Industrial, agricultural, and other non-domestic contaminant sources, point sources, or wastewater treatment facilities which are not included under subparagraph (6)(A)2.B. of this rule shall not be allowed to discharge. [Agrichemical facilities shall be designed and constructed so that all bulk liquid pesticide nonmobile storage containers and all bulk liquid fertilizer nonmobile storage containers are located within a secondary contain- ment facility. Dry bulk pesticides and dry bulk fertilizers shall be stored in a building so that they are protected from the weather. The floors of the buildings shall be constructed of an approved design and material(s). At an agrichemical facil- ity, all transferring, loading, unloading, mixing, and repack- aging of bulk agrichemicals shall be conducted in an opera- tional area.] All precipitation collected in the operational contain- ment area or secondary containment area as well as process generat- ed wastewater shall be stored and disposed of in a no-discharge man- ner. 
4. Monitoring requirements. A. The department will develop a wastewater and sludge sam- 
pling program based on design flow [that will require, at a mini- mum, one (1) wastewater sample per year for each twenty- five thousand (25,000) gpd of effluent, or fraction thereof, except that—] and other site-specific factors. Sampling frequen- cy shall not exceed once per day. 
[(I) Point sources that discharge less than five thou- sand (5,000) gpd may only be required to submit an annual report;] 
[(II)](I) [Point sources that discharge more than one point three (1.3) mgd will be required at a minimum to col- lect fifty-two (52) wastewater samples per year.] The depart- ment may establish less frequent sampling requirements for point 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1659 

sources that produce an effluent that does not exhibit high variability and consistently complies with the applicable effluent limit; 
[(III)](II) Sludge sampling will be established in the per- 
mit. 
[B. Sampling frequency shall be representative of the discharge during the period the sampling covers (daily, week- ly, monthly, seasonally, etc.).] 
[C.]B. Unless otherwise specified in the operating permit, [S]sample types shall be [as follows]: 
(I) [Samples collected from] Grab samples for lagoons [may be grab samples] and recirculating media beds; 
(II) [Samples collected from] Twenty-four- (24-) hour composite samples for mechanical plants [shall be twenty-four (24)-hour composite samples, unless otherwise specified in the operating permit]; and 
(III) Sludge samples [shall] will be a grab sample unless otherwise specified in the operating permit. 
[D.]C. The monitoring frequency and sample types stated in subparagraphs (6)(A)4.A. through [C.] B. of this rule are minimum requirements. [The permit writer shall establish monitoring fre- quencies and sampling types to fulfill the site-specific infor- mational needs of the department.] 
(7) Effluent Limitations for Subsurface Waters. (A) No person shall release any water into aquifers, store or dis- 
pose of water in a way which causes or permits it to enter aquifers either directly or indirectly unless it meets the requirements of sec- tion (9) of this rule and it meets the appropriate groundwater protec- tion criteria set in 10 CSR 20-7.031, Table A at a point ten feet (10’) under the release point, or other compliance point based on site spe- cific considerations, except as provided in subsection[s] (7)[(E) and (F)](D) of this rule. The permit writer shall review the complete application and other data to determine which parameter to include in the permit. 
[(D) Where any wastewater treatment facility or any water contaminant source or point source incorporates the use of land treatment systems which allows or can reasonably be expected to allow wastewater effluents to reach the aquifer. Compliance with subsection (7)(A) of this rule shall be deter- mined by a site-specific monitoring plan.] 
[(E)](D) The effluent limitations specified in subsection (7)(A) of this rule shall not apply to facilities designed and constructed to meet department design criteria provided these designs have been reviewed and approved by the department. The department has the right to require monitoring, reporting, public notice, and other information as deemed appropriate. This exemption may be revoked by the department should any monitoring indicate an adverse effect on a beneficial water use or if the numeric criteria in the Water Quality Standards are being exceeded. 
[(F)](E) Any person not included in subsection (7)[(E)](D) of this rule who releases, stores, or disposes of water in a manner which results in releases of water to an aquifer having concentrations in excess of one (1) or more parameter limitations provided in subsec- tion (7)(A) of this rule may be allowed to resample for purposes of verification of the excess. At their discretion, persons may demon- strate, at the direction of the department, that the impact on the water quality in the aquifer is negligible on the beneficial uses. The demon- stration shall consider, at a minimum, the following factors: 
1. Site geology; 2. Site geohydrology; 3. Existing and potential water uses; 4. Existing surface water and groundwater quality; 5. Characteristics of wastes or wastewater contained in facili- 
ties; and 6. Other items as may be required by the department to assess 
the proposal. A. Demonstrations conducted under 10 CSR 25-18.010 shall 
be reviewed by the department in accordance with such rules. If the 
demonstrations show that the impact on groundwater quality will not result in an unreasonable risk to human health or the environment, alternate effluent limitations will be established by the department. 
B. All other demonstrations shall be reviewed by the depart- ment. If the demonstrations show that the impact on groundwater quality will not result in an unreasonable risk to human health or the environment, alternate effluent limitation(s) will be proposed by the department and presented to the Clean Water Commission for approval. The Clean Water Commission has the right to require mon- itoring, reporting, public notice, and other information as deemed appropriate in the approval of the alternate limitation for one (1) or more parameters from subsection (7)(A) of this rule. The Clean Water Commission may hold a public hearing to secure public com- ment prior to final action on an alternate limitation. 
C. No alternate limitations will be granted which would impair beneficial uses of the aquifer or threaten human health or the environment. 
D. Alternate limitations may be revoked by the department should any monitoring indicate an adverse effect on a beneficial water use or violations of the alternate limitation. 
(8) Effluent Limitations for All Waters, Except Those in Paragraphs (1)(B)1.–6. of This Rule. In addition to the requirements of section (9) of this rule, the following limitations represent the maximum amount of pollutants which may be discharged from any point source, water contaminant source, or wastewater treatment facility. 
(A) Discharges from wastewater treatment facilities which receive primarily domestic waste or POTWs shall undergo treatment suffi- cient to conform to the following limitations: 
1. BOD5 and TSS equal to or less than a monthly average of thirty milligrams per liter (30 mg/L) and a weekly average of forty- five milligrams per liter (45 mg/L); 
2. pH shall be maintained in the range from six to nine (6–9) standard units in accordance with 40 CFR 133.102 “Secondary Treatment Regulation” October 16, 1984, as published by the Office of the Federal Resister, National Archives and Records Administration, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20408 which is hereby incorporated by reference and does not include later amendments or additions; 
3. The limitations of paragraphs (8)(A)1. and 2. of this rule will be effective unless an alternate limitation will not cause violations of the Water Quality Standards or impairment of the uses in the stan- dards. When an Antidegradation Review has been completed for new or expanded discharges, the following alternate limitation may also be allowed: 
A. If the facility is a wastewater lagoon, the TSS shall be equal to or less than a monthly average of eighty milligrams per liter (80 mg/L) and a weekly average of one hundred twenty milligrams per liter (120 mg/L) and the pH shall be maintained above six (6.0) and the BOD5 shall be equal to or less than a monthly average of forty-five milligrams per liter (45 mg/L) and a weekly average of sixty-five milligrams per liter (65 mg/L); 
B. If the facility is a trickling filter plant, the BOD5 and TSS shall be equal to or less than a monthly average of forty-five mil- ligrams per liter (45 mg/L) and a weekly average of sixty-five mil- ligrams per liter (65 mg/L); 
C. Where the use of effluent limitations set forth in section (8) of this rule is known or expected to produce an effluent that will endanger water quality, the department will set specific effluent lim- itations for individual dischargers to protect the water quality of the receiving streams[. When a waste load allocation study is con- ducted for a stream or stream segment, all permits for dis- charges in the study area shall be modified to reflect the lim- its established in the waste load allocation study in accor- dance with any applicable compliance schedule]; and 
D. The department may require more stringent limitations than authorized in paragraphs (8)(A)1. and 2. and subparagraphs (8)(A)3.A., B., and C. of this rule under the following conditions: 

Page 1660 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(I) If the facility is an existing facility, the department may set the BOD5 and TSS limits based upon an analysis of the past per- formance, rounded up to the next five milligrams per liter (5 mg/L) range; and 
(II) If the facility is a new facility the department may set the BOD5 and TSS limits based upon the design capabilities of the plant considering geographical and climatic conditions: 
(a) A design capability study has been conducted for new lagoon systems. The study reflects that the effluent limitations should be BOD5 equal to or less than a monthly average of forty-five milligrams per liter (45 mg/L) and a weekly average of sixty-five milligrams per liter (65 mg/L) and TSS equal to or less than a month- ly average of seventy milligrams per liter (70 mg/L) and a weekly average of one hundred ten milligrams per liter (110 mg/L); or 
(b) A design capability study has been conducted for new trickling filter systems and the study reflects that the effluent limitations should be BOD5 and TSS equal to or less than a monthly average of forty milligrams per liter (40 mg/L) and a weekly average of sixty milligrams per liter (60 mg/L); and 
[4. Sludges removed in the treatment process shall not be discharged. Sludges shall be routinely removed from the wastewater treatment facility and disposed of or used in accordance with a sludge management practice approved by the department; and] 
[5.]4.When the wastewater treatment process causes nitrifica- tion which affects the BOD5 reading, the permittee can petition the department to substitute carbonaceous BOD5 in lieu of regular BOD5 testing. If the department concurs that nitrification is occurring, the department will set a carbonaceous BOD5 at five milligrams per liter (5 mg/L) less than the regular BOD5 in the operating permit. 
(B) Monitoring Requirements. 1. The department will develop a wastewater and sludge sam- 
pling program based on design flow [that will require, at a mini- mum, one (1) wastewater sample per year for each fifty thousand (50,000) gpd of effluent, or fraction thereof, except that—] and other site-specific factors. Sampling frequen- cy shall not exceed once per day. 
[A. Point sources that discharge less than twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd may only be required to submit an annual report;] 
[B.]A. The department may establish less frequent sampling requirements for point sources that produce an effluent that does not exhibit high variability and consistently complies with the applicable effluent limit; and 
[C.]B. Sludge sampling will be established in the permit. [2. Sampling frequency shall be representative of the discharge during the period the sampling covers (daily, week- 
ly, monthly, seasonally, etc.).] [3.]2. Unless otherwise specified in the operating permit, 
[S]sample types shall be [as follows]: A. [Samples collected from] Grab samples for lagoons 
[may be grab samples] and recirculating media beds; B. [Samples collected from] Twenty-four- (24-) hour composite samples for mechanical plants [shall be twenty-four (24)-hour composite samples, unless otherwise specified in 
the operating permit]; and C. Sludge samples [shall] will be a grab sample unless oth- 
erwise specified in the operating permit. [4.]3. The monitoring frequency and sample types stated in 
paragraphs (8)(B)1. through [3.] 2. of this rule are minimum requirements. [The permit writer shall establish monitoring fre- quencies and sampling types to fulfill the site-specific infor- mational needs of the department.] 
(9) General Conditions. (A) Establishing Effluent Limitations. Unless a formal variance 
from water quality standards have been approved by the Clean Water Commission and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, operat- 
ing permits [as required] issued under 10 CSR 20-6.010[(5)](7) shall include, if applicable, the most protective limits set forth as fol- lows: 
1. Technology-based effluent limits and standards based on spe- cific requirements under sections (2) through (8) of this rule; 
2. Water quality-based effluent limits based on a waste load allocation in accordance with federal regulations (40 CFR 122.44(d)(1)), which would address pollutants that have a reasonable potential to cause or contribute to an excursion above Water Quality Standards established in 10 CSR 20-7.031. 
A. Local effluent and receiving water data may be used to develop site specific effluent limits provided the department deter- mines that this data is representative and 10 CSR 7.031 provides for their development; 
B. Water quality-based effluent limitations incorporating mix- ing zones and zones of initial dilution as provided for in 10 CSR 20- 7.031(5)(A)4.B. may be based on stream flows other than critical low-flow conditions, if the following conditions are met: 
(I) The limits are protective of critical low-flow conditions, as well as higher flow conditions; and 
(II) The permit shall require in-stream flow measurements and methods to determine compliance; 
3. Effluent limit guidelines or standards that have been federally promulgated under Sections 301, 304, 306, 307, 318, and 405 of the Clean Water Act and case-by-case determinations of technology- based effluent limitations under section 402(a)(1) of the Clean Water Act; 
4. Effluent limits [prescribed for pollutants under] for dis- charges subject to a TMDL[, as required under Section 303(d)(1)(C) of the Clean Water Act,] necessary to achieve water quality standards, including permit limits in lieu of a TMDL. [TMDL waste load allocations] Permit limitations consistent with the requirements and assumptions of an approved waste load alloca- tion within a TMDL shall be placed in permits [at renewal, and in subsequent renewals] as needed. Permits may include schedules of compliance and, if developed, follow TMDL implementation plans, adaptive management approaches or other flexibilities so long as they are allowed by federal regulation. The department may reopen existing permits to implement TMDL requirements; 
5. Effluent limits that are developed through the antidegradation review process, provided there is reasonable potential to exceed these limits; and 
[6. Effluent limits prescribed for stormwater discharges as required under 10 CSR 20-6.200 Storm Water Regulations; and] 
[7.]6. Effluent Limits that are required as a result of legal agreements between dischargers and the department or the Clean Water Commission, or as otherwise required or allowed by law. 
(B) Bacteria and Statewide Nutrient Limits. Operating Permits as required under 10 CSR 20-6.010[(5)](7) shall include, if applicable, the following bacteria and nutrient limits: 
1. Bacteria. The following water quality Escherichia coli (E. coli) discharge limits apply: 
A. Discharges to stream segments designated in Table H of 10 CSR 20-7.031 for whole body contact recreation and secondary contact recreation shall not exceed the water quality E. coli counts established in subsection (5)(C) of 10 CSR 20-7.031; 
B. Discharges to lakes designated as whole body contact recreational or secondary contact recreational in Table G of 10 CSR 20-7.031 shall not exceed the water quality E. coli counts established in subsection (5)(C) of 10 CSR 20-7.031; 
[C. Discharges to privately-owned lakes classified as L3, as defined in subsection (1)(F) of 10 CSR 20-7.031, that are designated as whole body contact recreational or sec- ondary contact recreational in Table G of 10 CSR 20-7.031 shall not exceed the water quality E. coli counts established in subsection (5)(C) of 10 CSR 20-7.031. Discharges include releases into streams one-half (1/2) stream mile (.80 km) 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1661 

before the stream enters the lake as measured to its conser- vation pool;] 
[D.]C. Discharges located within two (2) miles upstream of stream segments or lakes designated for whole body contact recre- ational or secondary contact recreational in Tables H and G of 10 CSR 20-7.031 shall not exceed the water quality E. coli counts estab- lished in subsection (5)(C) of 10 CSR 20-7.031 for the receiving stream segment or lake designated for those uses; 
[E.]D. [Short-term] E. coli limits. During the recreation season, discharges to waters designated for whole body contact “A” as defined in part (1)(C)2.A.(I) of 10 CSR 20-7.031 shall be limited to [six hundred thirty (630)] one hundred twenty-six (126) colony forming units per one hundred (100) milliliters (ml) expressed as a [weekly] monthly geometric mean for POTWs and [as a daily maximum for] non-POTWs. During the recreation season, dis- charges to waters designated for whole body contact “B” as defined in part (1)(C)2.A.(II) of 10 CSR 20-7.031 shall be limited to [one thousand thirty (1,030)] two hundred six (206) colony forming units per one hundred (100) ml expressed as a [weekly] monthly geometric mean for POTWs and [as a daily maximum for] non- POTWs. During the recreation season, discharges to waters designat- ed for secondary contact recreational as defined in subparagraph (1)(C)[9.]2.B. of 10 CSR 20-7.031 shall be limited to one thousand one hundred thirty-four (1,134) colony forming units per one hun- dred (100) ml expressed as a [weekly] monthly geometric mean for POTWs and [as a daily maximum for] non-POTWs. For the entire calendar year, discharges to waters that are defined by paragraph (1)(B)3. of this rule as losing streams shall be limited to one hundred twenty-six (126) colony forming units per one hundred (100) ml expressed as a daily maximum; 
E. Short-term E. coli limits. Short-term effluent limita- tions shall be expressed as a daily maximum for non-POTWs and as a weekly geometric mean for POTWs. Short-term effluent lim- itations for discharges to waters designated for whole body con- tact “A” and “B” as well as those designated for secondary con- tact recreation shall be derived by multiplying the monthly geo- metric mean effluent limitations identified in (9)(B)D. of this rule by a factor of five (5), except that alternative multipliers may be utilized to calculate short-term E. coli limitations when proposed and incorporated into permits. At no time shall using alternative multipliers in short-term effluent limitations cause or contribute to an excursion of the in-stream water quality criteria. 
F. As an alternative to the limits prescribed in subparagraphs (9)(B)1.A. through E. of this rule, the department may allow permit applicants to conduct a study to develop E. coli limits that reflect pathogen decay. Prior to conducting this study applicants shall sub- mit a quality assurance project plan for approval prior to the study, and submit all findings as part of their permit application; and 
G. Notwithstanding the bacteria limits prescribed in para- graphs (9)(1)A. through F. of this rule, discharges to losing streams shall be considered in compliance so long as no more than ten (10) percent of samples exceed one hundred twenty-six (126) colony forming units per one hundred (100) ml daily maximum; 
2. Nutrients. Reserved for Statewide Nutrient Effluent Limits. (C) Schedules of Compliance. 
1. Compliance with new or revised National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) or Missouri operating per- mit limitations shall be achieved and in accordance with the federal regulation 40 CFR Part 122.47, “Schedules of Compliance,” May 15, 2000, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, which is hereby incorporat- ed by reference and does not include later amendments or additions. 
[2. If any permit allows a time for achieving final com- pliance from the date of permit issuance, the schedule of compliance in the permit shall set forth interim requirements and the dates for their achievement. The time between interim dates shall not exceed one (1) year, except that in the 
case of a schedule for compliance with standards for sewage sludge use and disposal, the time between interim dates shall not exceed six (6) months. 
3. Within fourteen (14) days following each interim date and the final date of compliance, the permittee shall provide the department with written notice of the permittee’s com- pliance or noncompliance with the interim or final require- ment for the dates.] 
[4.]2. A compliance schedule may be modified [if the depart- ment determines good cause exists such as an act of God, strike, flood, or materials shortage or other events over which the permittee has little or no control and for which there is no reasonable remedy. Applicants may request a modification by providing appropriate justification. In no case shall the com- pliance schedule be modified to extend beyond an applicable statutory deadline.] in accordance with the federal regulation 40 CFR 122.62 “Modification or revocation and reissuance of per- mits,” November 20, 2008, as published by the Office of the Federal Resister, National Archives and Records Administration, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20408 which is hereby incorporated by reference and does not include later amendments or additions. 
(D) Monitoring, Analysis, and Reporting. 1. All construction and operating permit holders shall submit 
reports at intervals established by the permit or at any other reason- able intervals required by the department. The monitoring and ana- lytical schedule shall be as established by the department in the oper- ating permit. 
2. The analytical and sampling methods used must conform to 
[the following reference methods unless alternates are approved by the department:] federal regulation 40 CFR Part 136.3 “Identification of test procedures,” August 28, 2017, as pub- lished by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20408 which is hereby incorporated by reference and does not include later amendments or additions. 
[A. Standard Methods for the Examination of Waters and Wastewaters (14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, and 21st Edition), published by the Water Environment Federation, 601 Wythe Street, Alexandria, VA 22314; 
B. Water Testing Standards, Vol. 11.01 and 11.02, pub- lished by American Society for Testing and Materials, West Conshohocken, PA 19428; 
C. Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes (EPA- 600/4-79-020), published by the Environmental Protection Agency, Water Quality Office, Analytical Quality Control Laboratory, 1014 Broadway, Cincinnati, OH 54202; and 
D. NPDES Compliance Sampling Inspection Manual, (EPA- 305-X-04-001), published by Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460 (July 2004).] 
3. Approval of alternative test procedures shall follow the criteria set forth in federal regulation 40 CFR 136.4 “Application for and approval of alternate test procedures for nationwide use,” August 28, 2017, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Washington, DC 20408 or federal regulation 40 CFR 136.5 “Approval of alternate test procedures for limited use,” August 28, 2017, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20408, which are incorporated by ref- erence and do not include later amendments or additions. 
[3.]4. Sampling and analysis by the department to determine violations of this regulation will be conducted in accordance with the methods listed in paragraph (9)(D)2. of this rule or any other approved by the department. Violations may be also determined by 

Page 1662 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
review of the permittee’s self-monitoring reports. [4.]5.If, for any reason, the permittee does not comply with or 
will be unable to comply with any discharge limitations or standards specified in the permit, the permittee shall provide the department with the following information, with the next discharge monitoring report as required under subsection (9)(D) of this rule: 
A. A description of the discharge and cause of noncompli- ance; 
B. The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times and/or the anticipated time when the discharge will return to compliance; and 
C. The steps being taken to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the noncompliance. 
[5.]6. In the case of any discharge subject to any applicable toxic pollutant effluent standard under Section 307(a) of the federal Clean Water Act, the information required by paragraph (9)(D)4. of this rule regarding a violation of this standard shall be provided with- in twenty-four (24) hours from the time the owner or operator of the water contaminant source, point source, or wastewater treatment facility becomes aware of the violation or potential violation. This information may be provided via an electronic web-based system developed by the department, provided it is available. If this informa- tion is provided orally, a written submission covering these points shall be provided within five (5) working days of the time the owner or operator of the water contaminant source, point source, or waste- water treatment facility becomes aware of the violation. 
[6.]7. Bacteria Monitoring for Disinfection. A. For systems that have a design capacity of greater than one 
hundred thousand (100,000) gpd, a minimum of one (1) sample shall be collected for E. coli analysis each calendar week during the recre- ational season from April 1 through October 31. Compliance with the E. coli water quality standard established in subsection (5)(C) of 10 CSR 20-7.031 shall be determined each calendar month by calcu- lating the geometric mean of all of the samples collected each calen- dar month. Compliance with the short-term E. coli limits established in subparagraph (9)(B)1.E. of this rule shall also be determined. 
B. For systems that discharge to stream segments that are defined by paragraph (1)(B)3. as losing streams and have a design capacity of greater than one hundred thousand (100,000) gpd, a min- imum of one (1) sample shall be collected for E. coli analysis each calendar week all year. Compliance with the E. coli water quality standard established in subsection (5)(C) of 10 CSR 20-7.031 and with the short term E. coli limits established in subparagraph (9)(B)1.E. of this rule shall also be determined. 
C. For systems that have a design capacity of one hundred thousand (100,000) gpd or less, the sampling frequency for E. coli analysis shall be in accordance with the wastewater and sludge sam- pling program based on the design flow which is dependent upon the receiving water category as listed in subsection (1)(B) of this rule. Compliance with the E. coli water quality standard established in subsection (5)(C) of 10 CSR 20-7.031 shall be determined each cal- endar month by calculating the geometric mean of all of the samples collected each calendar month. Compliance with the short-term E. coli limits established in subparagraph (9)(B)1.E. of this rule shall also be determined. 
[7.]8. Statewide Monitoring for Nutrients. Point sources that have the design capacity of greater than one hundred thousand (100,000) gpd that typically discharge nitrogen and phosphorus shall collect and analyze [a minimum of one (1) effluent sample each calendar quarter for one (1) permit cycle or up to (5) five years if the first permit term is less than five (5) years. The samples shall be analyzed for total nitrogen and total phos- phorus using EPA approved test methods. This provision shall not limit the department from imposing ongoing or more frequent monitoring in permits that impose effluent limits for total nitrogen or total phosphorus or in situations in which monitoring is appropriate to ensure compliance 
with water quality standards. The quarterly monitoring fre- quency for total phosphorus does not apply to dischargers that are subject to the specific lake limits and monitoring requirement specified under subsections (3)(E) and (F) of this rule.] influent and effluent samples for total phosphorus, ammonia, total kjeldahl nitrogen and nitrate plus nitrite utilizing methods outlined in (D)2. of this section using the following fre- quencies: 
A. Quarterly for facilities with design capacities greater than one hundred thousand (100,000) gpd and less than one mil- lion (1,000,000) gpd per day for a period up to five (5) years. The department may require additional monitoring to ascertain a dis- charge’s nutrient contribution and the efficacy of the treatment technology as it pertains to nutrient removal. 
B. Monthly for facilities with design capacities greater than or equal to one million (1,000,000) gpd for a period up to five (5) years. The department may require additional monitoring to ascertain a discharge’s nutrient contribution and the efficacy of the treatment technology as it pertains to nutrient removal. 
C. The department may impose ongoing or more frequent monitoring in permits that impose effluent limits for total nitro- gen or total phosphorus or in situations in which monitoring is appropriate to ensure compliance with water quality standards or specific lake limits specified under subsection (3)(E) and (F) of this rule. 
(G) Bypass. Bypass means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a treatment facility, except in the case of blending. Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production. Blending is the practice of diverting wet-weather flows around any treatment unit and recombining those flows within the treatment facility, while providing primary and sec- ondary or biological treatment up to the available capacity, consistent with all applicable effluent limits and conditions. Stipulations regarding bypass allowances, prohibitions and reporting require- ments shall comply with federal regulation 40 CFR 122.41 “Conditions applicable to all permits (applicable to state pro- grams, See section 123.25), October 22, 2015, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC 20408, which are incorporated by reference and do not include later amendments or additions. 
[1. Bypass not exceeding limitations. The permittee may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause effluent limitations to be exceeded, but only if it also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to the provisions of paragraphs (9)(G)3. and 4. of this rule. 
2. Notice. A. Anticipated bypass. If the permittee knows in 
advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit prior notice to the department, if possible at least ten (10) days before the date of the bypass. 
B. Unanticipated bypass. The permittee shall notify the department by telephone within twenty-four (24) hours and follow with a written report within five (5) days from the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances of all bypasses or shutdowns that result in a violation of permit limits or conditions and which may endanger human health or the environment. The twenty-four (24)-hour and five (5) day reports may be provided via an electronic web-based system developed by the department, provided it is available, or by facsimile machine. POTWs that bypass during storm water inflow and infiltration events need only report on their 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1663 

discharge monitoring reports so long as the bypass does not result in violations of permit limits or conditions or endanger human health or the environment. 
3. Prohibition of bypass. Bypass is prohibited, and the department may take enforcement action against a permit- tee for bypass, unless: 
A. Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, per- sonal injury, or severe property damage; 
B. There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if ade- quate back-up equipment should have been installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and 
C. The permittee submitted notices as required under paragraph (9)(G)2. of this rule. 
4. The department may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if the department deter- mines that it will meet the three (3) conditions listed in para- graph (9)(G)3. of this rule.] 
(I) Industrial, agricultural, and other nondomestic water contami- nant sources, point sources, or wastewater treatment facilities which are not included under subsections (2)(B) or (8)(B) of this rule— 
1. These facilities shall meet the applicable control technology currently effective as published by the EPA in 40 CFR 405–471. Where there are no standards available or applicable, the department shall set specific parameter limitations using best professional judg- ment. The pH shall be maintained in the range from six to nine (6– 9) standard units, except that discharges of uncontaminated cooling water and water treatment plant effluent may exceed nine (9) stan- dard units, but may not exceed ten and one-half (10.5) standard units, if it can be demonstrated that the pH will not exceed nine (9) stan- dard units beyond the regulatory mixing zone; and 
2. [Agrichemical facilities shall be designed and con- structed so that all bulk liquid pesticide nonmobile storage containers and all bulk liquid fertilizer nonmobile storage containers are located within a secondary containment facil- ity. Dry bulk pesticides and dry bulk fertilizers shall be stored in a building so that they are protected from the weather. The floors of the buildings shall be constructed of an approved design and material(s). At an agrichemical facility, the following procedures shall be conducted in an opera- tional area: all transferring, loading, unloading, mixing, and repackaging of bulk agrichemicals.] All precipitation collected in the operational containment area or secondary containment area as well as process generated wastewater shall be stored and disposed of in a no-discharge manner or treated to meet the applicable control technology referenced in paragraph (9)(I)1. of this rule. 
(L) Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) Test. The following are permit requirements for acute and chronic WET tests: 
1. WET tests [are required under 10 CSR 20- 6.010(8)(A)4. and] are to be conducted according to the methods prescribed in 40 CFR 136.3; 
2. Test Types. A. Acute WET tests shall be a multiple dilution series, static, 
non-renewal test to determine the degree at which acute forty-eight to ninety-six hour (48–96 hour) exposure to the effluent is acutely toxic to aquatic life expressed in species survival. 
B. Chronic WET test shall be a multiple dilution series, sta- tic, renewal test to determine the degree at which chronic (sub lethal) exposure to the effluent is toxic to aquatic life or affects an alterna- tive endpoint such as species reproduction and/or growth. Duration of chronic WET tests shall be established according to 40 CFR 136.3 Identification of test procedures, promulgated as of July 1, 2011, is hereby incorporated by reference in this rule, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, U.S. National Archives and Records, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20408. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions; 
3. Applicability. WET test type and frequency shall be deter- mined and expressed in permits by the department. At permit issuance or reissuance, the department will use valid and representa- tive data to establish on a case-by-case basis, whether an existing dis- charge causes, has the reasonable potential to cause, or contributes to an excursion from the narrative water quality criteria. Where the department concludes that a discharge has the reasonable potential to contribute to an excursion from the narrative water quality criteria, as established in 10 CSR 20- 7.031 the permit will include WET lim- its. If the department determines the facility has no reasonable poten- tial to violate water quality standards, WET testing may be removed, or if more information is required, WET testing may be retained at a reduced frequency. WET test applicability for NPDES permits shall be fully addressed in the permit factsheet; and 
4. Specifications. A. A dilution series shall be established in the permit for 
WET test. The dilution series shall be a set of proportional effluent dilutions based on an Allowable Effluent Concentration (AEC). 
B. All WET tests shall be performed with Pimephales prome- las (a fathead minnow) and Ceriodaphnia dubia (a water flea), except facilities which discharge to receiving streams designated as cold- water fisheries. Facilities which discharge to receiving streams des- ignated as cold-water fisheries may be required to perform WET tests using Oncorhynchus mykiss (rainbow trout) instead of the fat- head minnow. Other test species for which test methods are provided in 40 CFR 136.3 may be approved by the department on a case-by- case basis provided the species are appropriately sensitive and repre- sentative. Alternative species (not included in 40 CFR 136.3) shall be approved in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 136.4. Application for alternate test procedures, promulgated as of [July 1, 2011] August 28, 2017, is hereby incorporated by reference in this rule, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, U.S. National Archives and Records, 700 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20408. This rule does not incorporate any subse- quent amendments or additions. 
C. A Toxic Unit (TU) water quality based limit shall be established in the permit for WET test where the department con- cludes that a discharge has the reasonable potential to cause or con- tribute to an excursion from the narrative water quality criteria as established in 10 CSR 20-7.031(4)(D). The TU limit shall be deter- mined in accordance with 40 CFR 122.44(d)(1)(v) and utilizing the methods established in Technical Support Document For Water Quality-based Toxics Control (March 1991, EPA, EPA/505/2-90- 001) and documented in the factsheet. Exceedance of a TU limit shall be a WET test failure. 
D. Upon completion of a WET test the lab report and depart- ment form as referenced in the permit shall be submitted by the per- mittee to the department within the timeframe established by the per- mit. 
AUTHORITY: section 644.026, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Original rule filed June 6, 1974, effective June 16, 1974. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 15, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will cost state agencies or political subdivisions $1,204,632 in the aggregate. 

Page 1664 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will cost private entities three hundred thirteen thousand ninety-two dollars ($313,092) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with Department of Natural Resources, Water Protection Program, Jane Davis, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the end of the public comment period, which is 5 pm August 23, 2018. A public hearing is scheduled August 15, 2018 at the Department of Natural Resources, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 

Volume 43, Number 14 Pages 1755–1986 
July 16, 2018 Part II 
SALUS POPULI SUPREMA LEX ESTO “The welfare of the people shall be the supreme law.” 
John R. Ashcroft Secretary of State 
MISSOURI REGISTER 
 
The Missouri Register is an official publication of the state of Missouri, under the authority granted to the secretary of state by sections 536.015 and 536.033, RSMo 2016. Reproduction of rules is allowed; however, no reproduction shall bear the name Missouri Register or “official” without the express per- mission of the secretary of state. 
The Missouri Register is published semi-monthly by SECRETARY OF STATE 
John R. Ashcroft 
Administrative Rules Division James C. Kirkpatrick State Information Center 
600 W. Main Jefferson City, MO 65101 (573) 751-4015 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF CURTIS W. TREAT 
· MANAGING EDITOR 
AMANDA MCKAY 
· EDITOR 
VONNE KILBOURN 
· ASSOCIATE EDITOR 
MARTY SPANN 
· PUBLICATION SPECIALIST 
JACQUELINE D. WHITE 
· ADMINISTRATIVE AIDE 
ALISHA DUDENHOEFFER 
ISSN 0149-2942, USPS 320-630; periodical postage paid at Jefferson City, MO Subscription fee: $72.00 per year 
POSTMASTER: Send change of address notices and undelivered copies to: 
MISSOURI REGISTER Office of the Secretary of State Administrative Rules Division PO Box 1767 Jefferson City, MO 65102 
The Missouri Register and Code of State Regulations (CSR) are available on the Internet. The Register address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/moreg/moreg and the CSR is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/csr/csr. These websites contain rulemakings and regu- lations as they appear in the paper copies of the Registers and CSR. The Administrative Rules Division may be contacted by email at rules@sos.mo.gov. 
The secretary of state’s office makes every effort to provide program accessibility to all citizens without regard to disability. If you desire this publication in alternate form because of a disability, please contact the Division of Administrative Rules, PO Box 1767, Jefferson City, MO 65102, (573) 751-4015. Hearing impaired citizens should contact the director through Missouri relay, (800) 735-2966. 
  

MISSOURI REGISTER 
July 16, 2018 
PART I PROPOSED RULES 
Department of Agriculture 
Plant Industries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1549 Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development 
Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1563 
Department of Economic Development 
Public Service Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1567 
Department of Natural Resources 
Clean Water Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1596 
PART II 
Department of Natural Resources 
Hazardous Waste Management Commission . . . . . . . . . .1759 
Department of Mental Health 
Certification Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1934 
Department of Natural Resources 
Hazardous Waste Management Commission . . . . . . . . . .1935 
Petroleum and Hazardous Substance Storage Tanks . . . . .1938 
Department of Health and Senior Services 
Division of Senior and Disability Services . . . . . . . . . . .1938 Division of Regulation and Licensure . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1940 Division of Maternal, Child and Family Health . . . . . . .1940 Division of Injury Prevention, Head Injury Rehabilitation 
and Local Health Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1940 Missouri Senior Rx Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1941 
Safe Drinking Water Commission . . . . Solid Waste Management . . . . . . . . . . State Parks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Department of Public Safety 
Division of Alcohol and Tobacco Control 
Department of Social Services 
Family Support Division . . . . . . . . . . MO HealthNet Division . . . . . . . . . . . 
ORDERS OF RULEMAKING 
Department of Agriculture 
Animal Health . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . .1802 . . . . . . . . . . . .1892 . . . . . . . . . . . .1905 
. . . . . . . . . . .1915 
. . . . . . . . . . . .1917 . . . . . . . . . . . .1917 
Department of Social Services 
Family Support Division . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Department of Health and Senior Services 
Missouri Health Facilities Review Committee . DISSOLUTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
SOURCE GUIDES 
RULE CHANGES SINCE UPDATE . . . . . . . . EMERGENCY RULES IN EFFECT . . . . . . . EXECUTIVE ORDERS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . REGISTER INDEX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . .1919 Weights, Measures and Consumer Protection . . . . . . . . .1919 
Missouri Department of Transportation 
Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission . . . . .1919 
IN THIS ISSUE: 
Vol. 43 No. 14 Pages 1545–1986 
Department of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration 
State Board of Pharmacy 
IN ADDITIONS 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . .1943 
. . . . . . . .1944 . . . . . . . .1944 . . . . . . . .1945 
. . . . . . . .1949 . . . . . . . .1966 . . . . . . . .1967 
. . . . . . . .1969 
 
Register Filing Deadlines 
March 1, 2018 March 15, 2018 
April 2, 2018 April 16, 2018 
May 1, 2018 May 15, 2018 
June 1, 2018 June 15, 2018 
July 2, 2018 July 16, 2018 
August 1, 2018 August 15, 2018 
September 4, 2018 September 17, 2018 
October 1, 2018 October 15, 2018 
Register Publication Date 
April 2, 2018 April 16, 2018 
May 1, 2018 May 15, 2018 
June 1, 2018 June 15, 2018 
July 2, 2018 July 16, 2018 
August 1, 2018 August 15, 2018 
September 4, 2018 September 17, 2018 
October 1, 2018 October 15, 2018 
November 1, 2018 November 15, 2018 
Code Publication Date 
April 30, 2018 April 30, 2018 
May 31, 2018 May 31, 2018 
June 30, 2018 June 30, 2018 
July 31, 2018 July 31, 2018 
August 31, 2018 August 31, 2018 
September 30, 2018 September 30, 2018 
October 31, 2018 October 31, 2018 
November 30, 2018 November 30, 2018 
Code Effective Date 
May 30, 2018 May 30, 2018 
June 30, 2018 June 30, 2018 
July 30, 2018 July 30, 2018 
August 30, 2018 August 30, 2018 
September 30, 2018 September 30, 2018 
October 30, 2018 October 30, 2018 
November 30, 2018 November 30, 2018 
December 30, 2018 December 30, 2018 
Documents will be accepted for filing on all regular workdays from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. We encourage early filings to facilitate the timely publication of the Missouri Register. Orders of Rulemaking appearing in the Missouri Register will be published in the Code of State Regulations and become effective as listed in the chart above. Advance notice of large volume filings will facilitate their timely publication. We reserve the right to change the schedule due to special circumstances. Please check the latest publication to verify that no changes have been made in this schedule. To review the entire year’s schedule, please check out the website at www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/pubsched. 
 
HOW TO CITE RULES AND RSMO 
RULES 
The rules are codified in the Code of State Regulations in this system– 
Title Division Chapter Rule 
3 CSR 10- 4 .115 Department Code of Agency General area Specific area 
State Division regulated regulated Regulations 
and should be cited in this manner: 3 CSR 10-4.115. 
Each department of state government is assigned a title. Each agency or division in the department is assigned a division number. The agency then groups its rules into general subject matter areas called chapters and specific areas called rules. Within a rule, the first breakdown is called a section and is designated as (1). Subsection is (A) with further breakdown into paragraphs 1., subparagraphs A., parts (I), subparts (a), items I. and subitems a. 
The rule is properly cited by using the full citation, for example, 3 CSR 10-4.115 NOT Rule 10-4.115. Citations of RSMo are to the Missouri Revised Statutes as of the date indicated. 
Code and Register on the Internet 
The Code of State Regulations and Missouri Register are available on the Internet. The Code address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/csr/csr The Register address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/moreg/moreg These websites contain rulemakings and regulations as they appear in the Code and Registers. 
  
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1759 

Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 2—Commission Procedures 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 10 CSR 25-2.010 Voting Procedures. The commission is amending 
the rule purpose and sections (2) and (5). 
PURPOSE: The commission proposes to amend this rule as part of the department’s process of reviewing rules for unnecessary require- ments and restrictive words. The commission proposes to amend the purpose statement of the rule to eliminate unnecessary restrictive words. 
PURPOSE: The purpose of this rule is to define the procedures [that must] to be followed by commission members when considering haz- ardous waste management variances, appeals, or orders and related issues. 
(2) The member [shall be] is excluded from voting on the matter at issue unless s/he fully advises the commission of the interest and receives a determination from the commission that the interest is not so substantial as to be deemed likely to affect the integrity of the ser- vices which the state expects from him/her. Fully advises means explains in detail in a signed, written statement available for public inspection. Official relationship includes, but is not limited to, cor- porate officer, employee, retiree, or similar affiliation. 
(5) If a quorum of commissioners is not present at the time of a public hearing published for rulemaking and it is necessary to delay the pub- lic hearing due to the lack of a quorum, the department [shall—] will issue a news release announcing the new time, date and location of the public hearing and include in that news release the new submittal date for written public comments. 
[(A) Issue a news release announcing the new time, date and location of the public hearing; and 
(B) Include in that news release the new submittal date for written public comments.] 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.365, 260.370, 260.400, and 260.437, RSMo [1986 and 260.370 RSMo Supp. 1989] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 7, 1978, effective Feb. 16, 1979. Amended: Filed Dec. 1, 1987, effective Aug. 12, 1988. Amended: Filed Feb. 16, 1990, effective Dec. 31, 1990. Amended: Filed June 12, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to 
tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 2—Commission Procedures 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
10 CSR 25-2.020 Hazardous Waste Management Commission Appeals and Requests for Hearings. This rule described the process for appealing department decisions to the Administrative Hearing Commission. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the rule restates information already found in the statute and is therefore not neces- sary. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 621.250 and 640.013, RSMo Supp. 2006. Original rule filed March 15, 2007, effective Dec. 30. 2007. Rescinded: Filed June 12, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 3—Hazardous Waste Management System: General 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-3.260 Definitions, Modifications to Incorporations and Confidential Business Information. The commission proposes to amend sections (1), (2), and (3) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our 

Page 1760 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) The regulations set forth in 40 CFR part 260, July 1, 2013, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, and the changes made at 78 FR 0, July 31, 2013, are incorporated by reference, except for the changes made at 70 FR 53453, September 8, 2005, [and 73 FR 64667 to 73 FR 64788, October 30, 2008,] subject to the following addi- tions, modifications, substitutions, or deletions. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. 
(A) Except where otherwise noted in sections (2) and (3) of this rule or elsewhere in 10 CSR 25, any federal agency, administrator, regulation, or statute that is referenced in 40 CFR parts 260–270, 273, and 279, and incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25, shall be deleted and in its place add the comparable state department, direc- tor, rule, or statute. Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent [shall] rules control. 
1. “Director” [shall be] is substituted for “Administrator” or “Regional Administrator” except where those terms are defined in 40 CFR 260.10 incorporated in this rule and where otherwise indicated in 10 CSR 25. 
2. “Missouri Department of Natural Resources” [shall be] is substituted for “EPA,” “U.S. EPA,” or “U.S. Environmental Protection Agency” except where those terms appear in definitions in 40 CFR 260.10 incorporated in this rule and where otherwise indicated in 10 CSR 25. 
3. “Section 260.395.15, RSMo,” [shall be] is substituted for “Section 3005(e) of RCRA.” 
4. “Sections 260.375(9), 260.380.1(9), 260.385(7), and 260.390(7), RSMo,” [shall be] is substituted for “Section 3007 of RCRA.” 
5. “Sections 260.410 and 260.425, RSMo,” [shall be] is sub- stituted for “Section 3008 of RCRA.” 
6. “10 CSR 25-3.260” [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 260. 
7. “10 CSR 25-4.261” [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 261. 
8. “10 CSR 25-5.262” [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 262. 
9. “10 CSR 25-6.263” [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 263. 
10. “10 CSR 25-7.264” [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 264. 
11. “10 CSR 25-7.265” [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 265. 
12. “10 CSR 25-7.266 [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 266. 
13. “10 CSR 25-7.268” [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 268. 
14. “10 CSR 25-7.270” [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 270. 
15. “10 CSR 25-8.124” [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 124. 
16. “10 CSR 25-11.279 [shall be] is substituted for any refer- ence to 40 CFR part 279. 
17. “10 CSR 25-16.273” [shall be] is substituted for any ref- erence to 40 CFR part 273. 
18. “Sections 260.350–260.434, RSMo [shall be] is substitut- ed for “Subtitle C of RCRA Act,” or “RCRA,” except where those terms are defined in 40 CFR 260.10, incorporated in this rule. 
19. “Section 260.380.1(1), RSMo [shall be] is substituted for “Section 3010 of RCRA.” 
20. “Section 260.420, RSMo” [shall be] is substituted for “Section 7003 of RCRA.” 
21. “Waste within the meaning of section 260.360(21), RSMo,” [shall be] is substituted for “solid waste within the meaning of sec- 
tion 1004(27) of RCRA.” Residual materials specified as wastes under section 260.360(21), RSMo, [shall] means any spent materi- als, sludges, by-products, commercial chemical products, or scrap metal that are solid wastes under 40 CFR 261.2, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-4.261. 
22. “Section 260.360(9), RSMo,” [shall be] is substituted for “Section 1004(5) of RCRA.” 
23. “Chapter 610, RSMo, sections 260.430 and 260.550, RSMo, 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(B), and 10 CSR 25-7.270(2)(B)” [shall be] are substituted for any reference to the Federal Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(a) and (b)), 40 CFR part 2, or Section 3007(b) of RCRA. 
24. All quantities of solid waste which are defined as hazardous waste pursuant to 10 CSR 25-4 are hazardous waste and are regulated under sections 260.350–260.434, RSMo, and 10 CSR 25. A person shall manage all hazardous waste which is not subject to require- ments in 10 CSR 25 in accordance with subsection 260.380.[2]3, RSMo. When a person accumulates one hundred kilograms (100 kg) of nonacute hazardous waste or one kilogram (1 kg) of acutely haz- ardous waste or the aggregate of one hundred kilograms (100 kg) of acute and nonacute hazardous waste, whichever first occurs, that per- son is subject to the provisions in 10 CSR 25. This provision is in addition to the calendar-month generation provisions in 40 CFR 261.5 which are incorporated by reference and modified in 10 CSR 25-4.261(2)(A). 
25. The term variance in 10 CSR 25 means an action of the commission pursuant to section 260.405, RSMo. In any case where a federal rule that is incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25 uses the term variance but the case-by-case decision or action of the depart- ment or commission does not meet the description of a variance pur- suant to section 260.405, RSMo, the decision or action [shall] will be considered an exception or exemption based on the conditions set forth in the federal regulation incorporated by reference or the omis- sion from regulation. 
26. The rules of grammatical construction in 40 CFR 260.3 incorporated by reference in this rule [shall] also apply to the incor- porated text of 40 CFR parts 266 and 270 and to 10 CSR 25. 
(2) This section sets forth specific modifications to the regulations incorporated in section (1) of this rule. (Comment: This section has been organized so that all Missouri additions, changes, or deletions to any subpart of the federal regulations are noted within the corre- sponding subsection of this section. For example, changes to 40 CFR part 260 subpart A will be located in subsection (2)(A) of this rule.) 
(A) The following are changes to 40 CFR part 260 subpart A incorporated in this rule: 
1. Confidential business information and availability of informa- tion. 40 CFR 260.2 is not incorporated in this rule. In lieu of those provisions, the following [shall apply] applies to confidential busi- ness information and the availability of information: 
A. Any information provided to the department under 10 CSR 25 will be made available to the extent and in the manner autho- rized by Chapter 610, RSMo, sections 260.430 and 260.550, RSMo, subsection (1)(B) and 10 CSR 25-7.270(2)(B)2. as applicable; and 
B. Any person who submits information to the department in accordance with 10 CSR 25 may assert a claim of business confiden- tiality covering a part or all of that information by including a letter with the information which requests protection of specific informa- tion from disclosure. Information covered by this claim will be dis- closed by the department to the extent and by means of the proce- dures set forth in Chapter 610, RSMo. However, if no claim accom- panies the information when it is received by the department, the information may be made available to the public without further notice to the person submitting it. The department will respond to requests for protection of business information within twenty (20) business days[; and]. 
[C. The department will respond to requests for infor- mation within three (3) business days except as provided in 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1761 

Chapter 610, RSMo, and except as allowed for reasonable cause in accordance with Chapter 610, RSMo. When the period for document production must exceed three (3) busi- ness days for reasonable cause, the department will provide the document within no more than twenty (20) business days.] 
(3) Missouri Specific Definitions. Definitions of terms used in 10 CSR 25. This section sets forth definitions which modify or add to those definitions in 40 CFR parts 60, 260–270, 273, and 279 and 49 CFR parts 40, 171–180, 383, 387, and 390–397. 
(I) Definitions beginning with the letter I. 1. Identification number means the unique code assigned to 
each hazardous waste, each hazardous waste generator, transporter, or facility[, or resource recovery] facility pursuant to these rules. 2. International Registration Plan, referred to as IRP, is a sys- tem of reporting and apportioning fees to states and other jurisdic- tions based on the percentage of mileage accumulated while conduct- 
ing business in those states or jurisdictions. (R) Definitions beginning with the letter R. 
1. RCRA means the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. sections 6901–6991. 
2. Registry means the Missouri Registry of Confirmed Abandoned or Uncontrolled Hazardous Waste Disposal Sites. 
3. Remedial action means any action at a hazardous waste site to protect the public health and environment. These actions may include, but are not limited to: storage; confinement; perimeter pro- tection using dikes, trenches, or ditches; clay cover; neutralization; cleanup of hazardous waste, hazardous substances, or contaminated materials; recycling or reuse; diversion; destruction; segregation of reactive materials; repair or replacement of leaking containers; col- lection of leachate and runoff; on-site treatment or incineration; pro- vision of alternative water supplies; any monitoring reasonably [required] needed to assure that these actions protect the public health and environment; or any combination of these actions. 
4. Remedial action plan means the specific procedures to be fol- lowed in implementation of any remedial action and all necessary, related procedures including, but not limited to, safety, analysis, sampling, handling, packaging, storing, removing, transporting, labeling, registering, and site security. A remedial action plan has a defined endpoint, agreed to in advance, which will complete the plan. Additional remedial actions may be necessary after completion of a remedial action plan dependent upon results of sample analysis or development of new information. 
[5. Resource recovery means the reclamation of energy or materials from waste, its reuse, or its transformation into new products which are not wastes.] 
[6.]5. Responsible party means any person(s) liable for costs of removal actions or remedial action or other response costs or dam- ages pursuant to Section 107 of the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. 9607–9657 as amended by P.L. 99-499 Superfund Amendments, and Reauthorization Act of 1986, or any current own- ers or other person willing to assume responsibility. 
(W) Definitions beginning with the letter W. 1. Waste means any material for which no use or sale is intend- 
ed and which will be discarded or any material which has been or is being discarded. Waste [shall] also means certain residual materials which may be sold for purposes of energy or materials reclamation, reuse, or transformation into new products which are not wastes. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370 and 260.395, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effective Oct. 1, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) 
in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 4—Methods for Identifying Hazardous Waste 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 10 CSR 25-4.261 Methods for Identifying Hazardous Waste. The 
commission proposes to amend sections (1) and (2) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) The regulations set forth in 40 CFR part 261, July 1, 2013, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, and the changes made at 78 FR [0] 46447, July 31, 2013, 80 FR 1693, January 13, 2015, and 83 FR 24664, May 30, 2018, are incorporated by reference, except for the changes made at 55 FR 50450, December 6, 1990, 56 FR 27332, June 13, 1991, 60 FR 7366, February 7, 1995, 63 FR 33823, June 19, 1998, 70 FR 53453, September 8, 2005, [73 FR 64667 to 73 FR 64788, October 30, 2008,] and 73 FR 77954, December 19, 2008. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. Except as provided otherwise in this rule, the substitution of terms set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) [shall apply] applies in this rule in addition to any other modifications set forth in section (2) of this rule. Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent [shall] rules control. 
(2) This section sets forth specific modifications of the regulations incorporated in section (1) of this rule. A person [required] subject to identifying a hazardous waste shall comply with this section as it modifies 40 CFR part 261 as incorporated in this rule. (Comment: This section has been organized in order that all Missouri additions, changes, or deletions to any subpart of the federal regulation are noted within the corresponding subsection of this section. For example, 

Page 1762 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
changes to 40 CFR part 261 subpart A will be located in subsection (2)(A) of this rule.) 
(A) General. The following are changes to 40 CFR part 261 sub- part A incorporated in this rule: 
1. [In Table 1 of 40 CFR 261.2, add an asterisk in col- umn 3, row 6, Reclamation of Commercial Chemical Products listed in 40 CFR 261.33 and add the following additional footnotes: “Note 2. Commercial chemical prod- ucts listed in 40 CFR 261.33 are not solid wastes when the original manufacturer uses, reuses, or legitimately recycles the material in his/her manufacturing process”; “Note 3. Gasoline and diesel fuels are not solid wastes if they are legitimately used as fuels;”] (Reserved) 
2. (Reserved) 3. (Reserved) 4. (Reserved) 5. (Reserved) 6. (Reserved) 7. 40 CFR 261.4(a)(16) is not incorporated in this rule (Note: 
The paragraph at 40 CFR 261.4(a)(16) added by 63 FR 33823, June 19, 1998, is the paragraph not incorporated by 10 CSR 25- 4.261(2)(A)9.); 
8. [ 40 CFR 261.4(a)(20) and (21) are not incorporated in this rule;] (Reserved) 
9. A generator shall submit the information [required] in 40 CFR 261.4(e)(2)(v)(C) as incorporated in this rule to the department along with the Generator’s Hazardous Waste Summary Report [required] in 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(D)1.; 
10. The changes to 40 CFR 261.5, special requirements for haz- ardous waste generated by conditionally exempt small quantity gen- erators, incorporated in this rule are as follows: 
A. The modification set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A)24. applies in this rule in addition to other modifications set forth; B. 40 CFR 261.5(g)(2) is not incorporated in this rule; 
11. The substitution of terms in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) does not apply in 40 CFR 261.6(a)(3)(i), as incorporated in this rule. The state may not assume authority from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to receive notifications of intent to export or to trans- mit this information to other countries through the Department of State or to transmit Acknowledgments of Consent to the exporter. This modification does not relieve the regulated person of the respon- sibility to comply with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) or other pertinent export control laws and regulations issued by other agencies; 
12. (Reserved) 13. (Reserved) 14. (Reserved) 15. [The resource recovery of hazardous waste is regu- 
lated by 10 CSR 25-9.020. An owner or operator of a facility that uses, reuses, or recycles hazardous waste shall be cer- tified under 10 CSR 25-9 or permitted under 10 CSR 25-7, unless otherwise excluded. Therefore, the parenthetic text in 40 CFR 261.6(c)(1) is not incorporated in this rule;] and (Reserved) 
16. In accordance with section 260.432.5(2), RSMo, used cath- ode ray tubes (CRTs) may not be placed in a sanitary landfill, except as permitted by section 260.380.3, RSMo. 
AUTHORITY: section 260.370, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effective Oct. 1, 1986. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will cost public entities two hundred three thousand six hundred ninety-eight dollars ($203,698) annually in the aggregate. These costs are detailed in the attached public entity fiscal note for this rule. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1763 
  
Page 1764 Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 

 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1765 

Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 5—Rules Applicable to Generators of Hazardous Waste 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-5.262 Standards Applicable to Generators of Hazardous Waste. The commission proposes to amend sections (1) and (2) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) The regulations set forth in 49 CFR part 172, October 1, 2013, 40 CFR 302.4 and .5, July 1, 2013, and 40 CFR part 262, July 1, 2013, except subpart H, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, are incorporated by reference. This rule does not incorporate any subse- quent amendments or additions. Except as provided otherwise in this rule, the substitution of terms set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) [shall apply] applies in this rule in addition to any other modifica- tions set forth in section (2) of this rule. Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent [shall] rules control. 
(2) A generator located in Missouri, except as conditionally exempt- ed in accordance with 10 CSR 25-4.261, shall comply with the requirements of this section in addition to the requirements incorpo- rated in section (1). [Where contradictory or conflicting require- ments exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent shall control.] (Comment: This section has been organized so that all Missouri additions, changes, or deletions to any subpart of the federal regula- tions are noted within the corresponding subsection of this section.) 
(A) General. The following registration requirements are addition- al requirements to, or modifications of, the requirements specified in 40 CFR part 262 subpart A: 
1. In lieu of 40 CFR 262.12(a) and (c), a generator located in Missouri shall comply with the following requirements: 
A. A person generating in one (1) month or accumulating at any one (1) time the quantities of hazardous waste specified in 10 CSR 25-4.261 and a transporter who is [required] subject to [reg- ister] registration as a generator under 10 CSR 25-6.263 shall reg- ister and is subject to applicable rules under 10 CSR 25-3.260–10 CSR 25-9.020 and 10 CSR 25-12.010; and 
B. Conditionally exempt generators may choose to register and obtain Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Missouri identification numbers, but in doing so will be subject to any initial registration fee and annual renewal fee outlined in this chapter; 
2. An owner or operator of a treatment, storage, and disposal[, or resource recovery] facility who ships hazardous waste from the facility shall comply with this rule; 
3. The following constitutes the procedure for registering: A. A person [who is required to register] subject to reg- istration shall file a completed registration form furnished by the department. The department [shall] requires an original ink signa- ture on all registration forms before processing. In the event the department develops the ability to accept electronic submission of the registration form, the signature requirement will be consistent with the legally-accepted standards in Missouri for an electronic signature on documents. All generators located in Missouri shall use only the 
Missouri version of the registration form; 
B. A person [required to register] subject to registration shall also complete and file an updated generator registration form if the information filed with the department changes; 
C. The department may request additional information, including information concerning the nature and hazards associated with a particular waste or any information or reports concerning the quantities and disposition of any hazardous wastes as necessary to authorize storage, treatment, or disposal and to ensure proper haz- ardous waste management; 
D. A person [who is required to register] subject to gen- erator registration, and those conditionally-exempt generators who choose to register, shall pay a one hundred dollar ($100) initial or reactivation registration fee at the time their registration form is filed with the department. If a generator site has an inactive registration, and a generator [required to register] subject to registration reac- tivates that registration, the generator shall file a registration form and pay the one hundred dollar ($100) registration reactivation fee. The department [shall] will not process any form for an initial reg- istration or reactivation of a registration if the one hundred dollar ($100) fee is not included. Generators [required to register] sub- ject to registration shall thereafter pay an annual renewal fee of one hundred dollars ($100) in order to maintain their registration in good standing; and 
E. [Any] The department will immediately revoke the reg- istration of any person who pays the registration fee with what is found to be an insufficient check [shall have their registration immediately revoked]; 
4. The following constitutes the procedure for registration renewal: 
A. The calendar year [shall] constitutes the annual registra- tion period; 
B. Annual registration renewal billings will be sent by December 1 of each year to all generators holding an active registra- tion; 
C. Any generator initially registering between October 1 and December 31 of any given year shall pay the initial registration fee, but [shall] does not pay the annual renewal fee for the calendar year immediately following their initial registration. From that year for- ward, [they shall pay] the generator pays the annual renewal fee; 
D. The department will administratively inactivate the registration of [A]any generator [required to register] subject to registration who fails to pay the annual renewal fee by the due date specified on the billing [shall], and the generator will be [admin- istratively inactivated and] subject to enforcement action for fail- ure to properly maintain their registration; 
E. Generators administratively inactivated for failure to pay the renewal fee in a timely manner, who later in the same registration year pay the annual renewal fee, shall pay the fifteen percent (15%) late fee [required by] in section 260.380.4, RSMo, in addition to the one hundred dollar ($100) annual renewal fee for each applicable registration year and shall file an updated generator registration form with the department before their registration is reactivated by the department; 
F. Generators who request that their registration be made inactive rather than pay the renewal fee, who later in that same renewal year pay the annual renewal fee to reactivate their registra- tion, shall pay the fifteen percent (15%) late fee [required by] in section 260.380.4, RSMo, in addition to the one hundred dollar ($100) annual renewal fee and file an updated generator registration form with the department before their registration is reactivated by the department; and 
G. The department will immediately revoke the registra- tion of [A]any person who pays the annual renewal fee with what is found to be an insufficient check [shall have their registration immediately revoked]; and 
5. The department may administratively inactivate the registra- tion of generators that fail to pay any applicable hazardous waste fees and taxes in a timely manner after appropriate notice to do so. 

Page 1766 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(B) (Reserved) [The Manifest. Additional manifest and reporting requirements are set forth in subsections (2)(D) and (E). This subsection is applicable to all Missouri genera- tors and to all other generators who deposit hazardous waste in Missouri. (Note: This section is not applicable to an out-of-state or international generator who is shipping haz- ardous waste through, in less than ten (10) days, but not depositing hazardous waste in Missouri. This subsection does not prevent a transporter from voluntarily carrying information in addition to the manifest. Any reference to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) form 8700-22 means the form as revised by EPA and approved by the federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB)).] 
[1. Generators must record either the total weight in kilograms or pounds or the specific gravity for wastes listed or measured in gallons, liters, or cubic yards. 
2. Manifest reporting. This paragraph sets forth addi- tional requirements for manifest reporting. The generator shall contract with the designated facility to return the com- pleted manifest to the generator within thirty-five (35) days after the hazardous waste was accepted by the initial trans- porter.] 
(C) Pretransport, Containerization, and Labeling Requirements. 
[1. In addition to labeling containers used to accumulate hazardous waste in accordance with the requirements in 40 CFR 262.34(a)(2), (a)(3), and (d)(4), generators must also comply with either subparagraphs A. or B. below. 
A. All containers used to accumulate hazardous waste must be labeled in accordance with applicable United States Department of Transportation labeling requirements in 49 CFR part 172 subpart E during the entire time the waste is accumulated on-site. If a generator determines that labeling a container with a capacity of less than one (1) gallon is not feasible, the generator shall affix the appropriate label(s) to the locker, rack, or other device used to hold or accumulate any such container; or 
B. Clearly label each container with words that cor- rectly identify the hazards of the contents of the container during the entire on-site storage period. Such words shall include one (1) or more of the following as defined in 40 CFR part 261 subparts C and D: Ignitable, Toxic, Corrosive, or Reactive. The label shall be white with black lettering or black with white lettering that is a minimum of one (1) inch in height. If a generator determines that labeling a container with a capacity of less than one (1) gallon is not feasible, the generator shall affix the appropriate label(s) to the locker, rack, or other device used to hold or accumulate any such container. Note that pursuant to 49 CFR 172.401, “No per- son may offer for transportation and no carrier may transport a package bearing any marking or label which by its color, design, or shape could be confused with or conflict with a label prescribed by this part.” 
2. In addition to labeling requirements for tanks used to accumulate hazardous waste in accordance with the require- ments of 40 CFR 262.34(a)(3) and (d)(4), generators must also comply with the 2012 Edition of the National Fire Protection Association Standard NFPA 704: Standard System for the Identification of the Hazards of Materials for Emergency Response to identify the hazards of the tank con- tents. The 2012 edition of NFPA 704 is hereby incorporated by reference without any subsequent amendments or addi- tions, and is published by the National Fire Protection Association, 1 Battery March Park, Quincy, MA, 02169- 7471. 
3. Satellite accumulation. As an alternative to compli- ance with the accumulation limits in 40 CFR 262.34(c)(1), generators who instead wish to store up to fifty-five (55) gallons of each non-acute hazardous waste stream, or up to 
one (1) quart of each acutely hazardous waste stream in a satellite accumulation area may do so if they comply with the other applicable requirements of 40 CFR 262.34(c) and the following additional requirements: 
A. The generator must notify the department that it has chosen to comply with the additional requirements in this section and must also re-notify at any time it changes this decision. Such notification must be made by submitting an updated Notification of Regulated Waste Activity Form. All satellite accumulation areas at the generator’s location must operate under the same requirements; 
B. The generator may not use more than one (1) con- tainer per wastestream; 
C. Each container must be marked with its beginning date of satellite storage; 
D. A container of hazardous waste stored in a satellite accumulation area pursuant to this paragraph 3. shall be removed from the satellite accumulation area within three (3) calendar days if any of the following occurs: 
(I) One (1) year has passed since the accumulation start date; 
(II) The container is full; or 
(III) The container has reached its volume limit. E. A container of hazardous waste removed from the satellite accumulation area pursuant to subparagraph D. above must be taken to the generator storage area, shipped off-site for proper hazardous waste management, or man- aged in accordance with an approved hazardous waste per- 
mit or certification at the site. F. In lieu of 40 CFR 262.34(c)(2), during the three (3) 
day period referenced in subparagraph D. above, the gener- ator may start a new satellite container for that wastestream if in compliance with all other requirements of paragraph 3. and 40 CFR 262.34(c)(1) as modified by this paragraph 3.] 
[4.]1. 40 CFR 262.34(a)(1)(iii) is not incorporated in this rule. 
[5. Generators who accumulate more than six thousand (6000) kilograms of ignitable or reactive hazardous waste may elect to comply with 10 CSR 25-7.264(2)(I) in lieu of 40 CFR 265.176.] 
(D) Record Keeping and Reporting. In addition to requirements in 40 CFR 262.40, generators shall retain registration information [required] in subsection (2)(A) of this rule and the Generator’s Hazardous Waste Summary Report [required] in paragraph (2)(D)1. of this rule for no fewer than three (3) years. 
1. This paragraph establishes requirements for quarterly Generator’s Hazardous Waste Summary Reports. 
A. All generators [who are required to register] subject to registration in accordance with subsection (2)(A) of this rule shall complete a Generator’s Hazardous Waste Summary Report[. This report shall be] that is completed on a form provided by the depart- ment or on a reproduction of the form provided by the department or in the same format as the form provided by the department after review and approval by the department. 
B. A [P]person[s] who does not ship any hazardous wastes or who makes only one (1) shipment of hazardous waste during the entire reporting year, July 1 through June 30, or [are] is defined as a small quantity generator for the entire reporting year, or [are] is defined as a large quantity generator and filing their report electron- ically in a manner prescribed by the department, may file an annual report by August 14 following the reporting year period. However, a person[s] who [are] is defined as a large quantity generator and [have] has more than one (1) shipment of hazardous waste during the reporting years, and does not file their report using the electronic method prescribed by the department, shall file quarterly. [Large quantity generators may submit an annual report electroni- cally beginning with the reporting period of July 1, 2015- June 30, 2016, or sooner if the system for electronic report- ing is in place prior to that reporting period.] 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1767 

C. A generator who is registered with the department shall report the quantity, type, and status of all hazardous waste(s) shipped off-site during the reporting period on the Generator’s Hazardous Waste Summary Report regardless of the destination of the ship- ment(s). 
D. The Generator’s Hazardous Waste Summary Report shall be signed and certified by an authorized representative as defined in 40 CFR 260.10 incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-3. The cer- tification statement shall read as follows: “CERTIFICATION: I cer- tify under penalty of law that I personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted on this form and all attached docu- ments and, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submit- ted information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.” The handwritten signature of the authorized representatives shall follow this certification. 
E. The generator shall submit the completed Generator’s Hazardous Waste Summary Report within forty-five (45) days after the end of each reporting period. The reporting periods and submittal dates are as follows: January 1 through March 31, with a submittal date of May 14 of the same year; April 1 through June 30, with a submittal date of August 14 of the same year; July 1 through September 30, with a submittal date of November 14 of the same year; and October 1 through December 31, with a submittal date of February 14 of the following year. 
F. A generator shall submit the information [required] in 40 CFR 261.4(e)(2)(v)(C) incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25- 4.261(1) to the department along with the completed Generator’s Hazardous Waste Summary Report. 
G. [Generators failing] The department will administra- tively inactivate the registration of any generator that fails to file the [reports required by this rule shall have their registration administratively inactivated] Generator’s Hazardous Waste Summary Report. [Their registration shall] The generator’s reg- istration will be reactivated after all [required] reporting is filed, applicable fees are paid, and an updated generator registration form is submitted to the department. 
2. Reporting requirements for small quantity generators. 40 CFR 262.44 is not incorporated in this rule. 
(E) Exports of Hazardous Waste. This subsection modifies the incorporation of 40 CFR part 262 subpart E. The state cannot assume authority from the EPA to receive notifications of intent to export or to transmit this information to other countries through the Department of State or to transmit acknowledgements of consent to the exporter. In addition, the annual reports and exception reports [required] in 40 CFR 262.55 and 262.56, incorporated in this rule, shall be filed with the EPA administrator [and copies shall be] with copies provided to the department. The substitution of terms in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) does not apply in 40 CFR 262.51, 262.52, 262.53, 262.54, 262.55, 262.56, and 262.57, as incorporated in this rule. This modification does not relieve the regulated person of his/her responsibility to comply with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) or other pertinent export control laws and reg- ulations issued by other agencies (for example, the federal Department of Transportation and the Bureau of the Census of the Department of Commerce). 
(F) Imports of Hazardous Waste. The United States importer shall also comply with the following requirements: 
1. In addition to registration requirements specified in this sec- tion, the United States importer shall register as generator in accor- dance with this section and [shall be responsible] has responsibil- ity for compliance with all applicable requirements specified in this section. The United States importer shall register with the depart- ment as a generator, and four (4) weeks in advance of the date the waste is expected to enter the United States, [shall] specifically iden- tify hazardous waste(s) intended to be imported by their EPA waste number(s) found in 40 CFR 261 and this section; and 
2. The United States importer shall keep and maintain the fol- lowing information on each shipment which is imported and make available upon departmental request: 
A. If the waste is a mixed bulk shipment of multi-generator wastes, the individual original foreign generator’s names and addresses and the wastes’ technical chemical names from each source; 
B. Quantity of waste from each imported source; and 
C. List of EPA waste numbers found in 40 CFR 261 and this section which are applicable to the waste(s) from each source. 
(J) Generator Fee and Taxes. A generator who is [required to register] subject to registration under this rule, unless otherwise exempted, shall pay fees and taxes in accordance with 10 CSR 25- 12.010. [Generators failing] The department will administrative- ly inactivate the registration of any generator who fails to pay the fees, taxes, or applicable late fees outlined in 10 CSR 25-12.010 by the due date [shall have their registration administratively inac- tivated]. [Their] The department will reactivate the generator’s registration [shall be reactivated] after all applicable fees, taxes, and late fees are paid and an updated generator registration form is submitted to the department. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370[, RSMo Supp. 2013,] and [sec- tion] 260.380, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. This rule was previously filed as 10 CSR 25-5.010. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effective Oct. 1, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 6—Rules Applicable to Transporters of Hazardous Waste 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-6.263 Standards for Transporters of Hazardous Waste. The commission proposes to amend sections (1) and (2) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and 

Page 1768 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) The regulations set forth in 40 CFR part 263, July 1, 2013; 49 CFR parts 171–180, November 1, 1990, and December 1, 1997; and 49 CFR parts 40, 383, 387, 390–397, October 1, 1990, and October 1, 1997, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, are incorporated by reference, except for 49 CFR 390.3(f)(2), which is not incorporated by reference. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. Except as provided otherwise in this rule, the substitution of terms set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) [shall apply] applies in this rule in addition to any other modifications set forth in section (2) of this rule except that the modifications do not apply to the 49 CFR parts incorporated in this rule. Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent [shall] rules control. 
(2) A hazardous waste transporter shall comply with the require- ments of this section in addition to those set forth in section (1). Any reference to a 40 CFR cite in this section [shall] means as that pro- vision is incorporated in 10 CSR 25. [Where contradictory or conflicting requirements exist in 10 CSR 25, the more strin- gent shall control.] (Comment: This section has been organized in order within the corresponding subsection of this section. For exam- ple, the additional requirements being added to 40 CFR part 263 sub- part A are found in subsection (2)(A).) 
(A) In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR part 263 subpart A, the following [shall apply] applies: 
1. In 40 CFR 263.10(a) and (c)(1), incorporated in this rule, substitute “the state of Missouri” for “United States”; 
2. In the last paragraph of the note following 40 CFR 263.10(a), change “49 CFR parts 171 through 179” to “49 CFR parts 171 through 180 and parts 383, 387, and 390–397” and add the following to the note: “The parts of 49 CFR are incorporated to the extent that these regulations do not conflict with the laws and regulations of the state of Missouri, or, in the event the regulations conflict, the more stringent [shall] regulations control. The equipment used in the transportation of hazardous waste shall meet the standards of the Missouri Department of [Economic Development’s] Transportation’s Division of Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety, the United States Department of Transportation, [or any combination of them,] and the Federal Railroad Administration, or any combi- nation of them, as applicable for the types of hazardous materials for which it will be used. The equipment to be used in the transporta- tion of hazardous waste shall be compatible with that waste and [shall be] adequate to protect the health of humans and prevent dam- age to the environment”; 
3. License requirements for power unit transporters of haz- ardous waste, used oil, or infectious waste. [Transporters required by] In accordance with 10 CSR 25-6.263, 10 CSR 25- 11.279(2)(E)1., or 10 CSR 80-7.010(4), to be licensed by the depart- ment hazardous waste transporters shall comply with the following requirements: 
A. Power unit transporters shall submit to the department an application for a license on a form furnished by the department[. The form shall be] and completed with the following information: 
(I) The applicant’s name, address, location of the principal office, or place of business, and the legal owner of the applicant com- pany; 
(II) A description of the service proposed to be rendered; 
(III) The applicant’s Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) identification number; 
(IV) The number of power units to be used; 
(V) A certification that the applicant’s equipment and operating procedures meet the standards of the Missouri Division of Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety, the Federal Department of Transportation (DOT), or the Federal Railroad Administration, or both; 
(VI) A description of each power unit to include make, model, year, vehicle identification number (VIN), licensed vehicle weight, and state and number of the license plate[. Also required is] and a description of the trailers (cargo box, van, tank) and max- imum trailer capacities used by the transporter; 
(VII) A disclosure statement for the applicant, principal corporate officers, and the holders of more than twenty percent (20%) of the applicant company. If any of these persons were involved in hazardous waste management before their association with the applicant company, the applicant shall submit this informa- tion to the department including the names of these persons and the names and locations of the companies with which they were associ- ated; and 
(VIII) For applicants who are not residents of Missouri, a written statement designating the director of the department as the authorized agent upon whom legal service may be made for all actions arising in Missouri from any operation of motor vehicles under authority of the department. 
B. In addition to the completed application, an applicant shall submit each of the following: 
(I) A fee as specified in 10 CSR 25-12.010; 
(II) The insurance document(s) as specified in paragraph (2)(A)4. of this rule; and 
(III) Statements, documents, or both, of the following, where applicable: 
(a) If the applicant is a partnership, include an affidavit to this effect signed by the proprietor or include a copy of the part- nership agreement. If no written partnership agreement has been entered into, include a statement summarizing the agreement between the parties which is signed by each of the partners and cer- tified by a notary public; 
(b) If the applicant is a Missouri corporation or a foreign corporation with authority to conduct business in Missouri or is a foreign corporation with facilities or employees in Missouri, a Certificate of Corporate Good Standing from the Missouri secretary of state [shall be included.] and [I]if the applicant is a nonresident corporation without facilities or employees in Missouri, a Certificate of Good Standing from the state or country of residence [shall be included]; and 
(c) If the applicant is conducting its business under an assumed or fictitious name, a certified copy of the registration with the Missouri secretary of state of the assumed or fictitious name [shall be included]. 
C. License renewal. (I) At least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of 
his/her current license, [A]a hazardous waste transporter wishing to renew his/her license shall submit a license renewal application on a form furnished by the department [and shall submit other applic- able information, as specified in this section, to the depart- ment at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of his/her current license. A Certificate of Corporate Good Standing must be submitted with the renewal. This certifi- cate must have been issued in the twelve (12) months pre- ceding the license expiration date. Insurance requirements must be satisfied as specified in paragraph (2)(A)4. of this rule except for other than power unit carriers. The renewal application shall be accompanied by a fee as specified in 10 CSR 25-12.], including a Certificate of Corporate Good Standing issued within the twelve (12) months preceding the license expiration date, documents that satisfy the insurance requirements in paragraph (2)(A)4. of this rule, except for other than power unit carriers, and a fee as specified in 10 CSR 25-12. 
D. Power unit additions, replacements, and temporary permits. Changes made to the power unit listings as shown on the current 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1769 

license application or renewal form shall be reported to the depart- ment as follows: A power unit can be added by submitting a written description of the power unit to be added and paying a fee in accor- dance with 10 CSR 25-12.010. A power unit can be replaced for another without any charge by submitting a description of the origi- nal power unit and its replacement. A power unit can be issued a temporary permit for a thirty- (30-)[-] day period by submitting a written description of the power unit and paying a fee in accordance with 10 CSR 25-12.010. 
E. Proof of license. A transporter shall carry proof of license with each power unit transporting hazardous waste within Missouri. A legible copy of this certificate shall be in the possession of the dri- ver of the power unit and [shall be] shown upon demand to repre- sentatives of the department, officers of the Missouri State Highway Patrol, and other law enforcement officials [upon demand]; 
4. Insurance. A. Transporters licensed in accordance with this chapter shall 
at all times have on file with the department a certification of public liability (bodily injury and property damage) insurance which [shall] includes the required, uniform endorsements covering each motor vehicle in accordance with 49 CFR part 387 incorporated by refer- ence in this rule. The minimum level of insurance coverage shall not be less than one (1) million dollars combined single limit. (Comment: The federal regulations at 49 CFR 387.9 set forth cer- tain conditions which require five (5) million dollars coverage.) 
B. The certificate of insurance shall [state that the insurer has issued to the motor carrier a policy of insurance which, by endorsement, provides automobile bodily injury and prop- erty damage liability insurance covering the obligations imposed upon the motor carrier by the provisions of the law of Missouri. The certificate shall be duly completed and exe- cuted by the insurer on Form E—Uniform Motor Carrier Bodily Injury and Property Damage Liability Certificate of Insurance. The endorsements shall be attached to the insur- ance policy and shall form a part of that policy. The endorse- ments shall be made on Form F—Uniform Motor Carrier Bodily Injury and Property Damage Liability Insurance Endorsements. The certificate shall be duly completed and executed by the insurer. The surety bond shall be in the form set forth in Form G—Uniform Motor Carrier Bodily Injury and Property Damage Surety Bond. The bond shall be duly com- pleted and executed by the surety and principal.]— 
(I) State that the insurer has issued to the motor carrier a policy of insurance which, by endorsement, provides automo- bile bodily injury and property damage liability insurance cover- ing the obligations imposed upon the motor carrier by the provi- sions of the law of Missouri; 
(II) Be duly completed and executed by the insurer on Form E—Uniform Motor Carrier Bodily Injury and Property Damage Liability Certificate of Insurance; 
(III) Be duly completed and executed by the insurer with the endorsements made on Form F—Uniform Motor Carrier Bodily Injury and Property Damage Liability Insurance Endorsements attached to the insurance policy and forming a part of that policy; and 
(IV) A surety bond, duly completed and executed by the surety and principal, in the form set forth in Form G—Uniform Motor Carrier Bodily Injury and Property Damage Surety Bond. 
C. An insurer under the provisions of this rule shall submit to the department not fewer than thirty (30) days’ notice of cancella- tion of motor carrier bodily injury and property damage liability insurance by filing with the department the form of notice set forth in Form K—Uniform Notice of Cancellation of Motor Carrier Insurance Policies. The notice shall be duly completed and executed by the insurer. A surety under the provisions of this rule shall give the department not fewer than thirty (30) days’ notice of the cancel- lation of motor carrier bodily injury and property damage liability surety bond by filing with the department the form of notice set forth 
in Form L—Uniform Notice of Cancellation of Motor Carrier Surety Bond. The notice shall be duly completed and executed by the surety or motor carrier. 
D. Forms E, F, G, K, and L referred to in subparagraphs (2)(A)4.B. and C. of this rule are the standard forms determined by the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners and promulgated by the Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to the provisions of section 202(b)(2) of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U.S.C. section 302(b)(2), 1994. 
E. Before any policy of insurance will be accepted by the department, the insurance company issuing the policy or the carrier offering the same, upon request of the department, shall furnish evi- dence satisfactory to the department that the insurance company issu- ing the policy is duly authorized to transact business in Missouri and that it is financially able to meet the obligations of the policy offered. 
F. All insurance certificates and surety bonds filed with the department shall remain on file with the department and shall not be removed except with the written permission of the director. 
G. A new certificate of insurance shall be filed for reinstate- ment of insurance which has been canceled; 
5. Vehicle marking. The transportation vehicle used to ship haz- ardous waste shall be marked in accordance with 49 CFR 390.21(b) and (c); 
6. No hazardous waste shall be accepted for transport unless it has been properly loaded and secured in accordance with 49 CFR 177.834; 
7. Incompatible wastes. A waste shall not be added to an unwashed or uncleaned container that previously held an incompati- ble material; 
8. In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR 263.10(c)(1), add the following requirements: A transporter who accepts shipments of hazardous waste from a person not [required to register] subject to registration as a generator in accordance with 10 CSR 25-5.262, and in so doing accumulates one hundred kilograms (100 kg) or more of hazardous waste, becomes a generator and shall comply with 10 CSR 25-5.262 in addition to the requirements of this rule. (Note: This provision is not intended to apply to municipal waste haulers who may unknowingly pick up small quantities of hazardous waste that may have been deposited in solid waste containers along their routes.); 
9. In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR 263.11, add the following: “In the event that an EPA identification number has not been assigned, the department will assign an EPA identification num- ber.” The applicant shall also submit an application for license in accordance with this rule at the time of notification; and 
10. In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR 263.12, the fol- lowing rules apply to transfer facilities (Note: Used oil transfer facil- ities are regulated under 10 CSR 25-11.279.): 
A. A hazardous waste transported intrastate or into the state by motor carrier shall arrive at its destination in ten (10) calendar days or less from the date the initial transporter signs the manifest, or when the waste first enters the state, unless departmental approval is obtained prior to the expiration of the ten- (10-) day period; 
B. A hazardous waste destined for out-of-state treatment, storage, or disposal shall leave the state in ten (10) calendar days or less from the date the initial transporter signs the manifest unless departmental approval is obtained prior to the expiration of the ten- (10-) day period; 
C. A hazardous waste transported through the state by motor carrier shall pass through the state in ten (10) calendar days or less unless departmental approval is obtained prior to the expiration of the ten- (10-) day period; 
[D. A secondary containment system for storage of hazardous waste in containers at a transfer facility shall meet the following requirements: 
(I) A containment system shall be designed, main- tained, and operated as follows: 
(a) The containment system shall include a base 

Page 1770 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
which is free of cracks or gaps and is sufficiently impervious to contain leaks, spills, and accumulated precipitation until the collected material is detected and removed. The base shall be under the container; 
(b) The base shall be sloped or the containment system shall be designed and operated to drain and remove liquids resulting from leaks, spills, or precipitation, unless the containers are elevated or are otherwise protected from con- tact with accumulated liquids; 
(c) The containment system shall have a capacity equal to ten percent (10%) of the containerized waste vol- ume or the volume of the largest container, whichever is greater (Containers that do not contain free liquids need not be considered in this calculation.); 
(d) Run-on into the containment system shall be prevented unless the collection system has sufficient excess capacity in addition to that required in part (2)(A)10.D.(I) of this rule to contain any run-on which might enter the sys- tem; and 
(e) Spilled or leaked waste and accumulated pre- cipitation shall be removed from the sump or collection area as necessary to prevent overflow of the collection system; and 
(II) The containment system shall be inspected as part of the weekly inspections required by 40 CFR 265.174 incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.265(1); 
E. The following requirements apply to the manage- ment of ignitable, reactive, incompatible, or volatile wastes at a transfer facility: A transporter shall take precautions to prevent accidental ignition or reaction of ignitable or reactive wastes. These hazardous wastes shall be separated and pro- tected from sources of ignition or reaction including, but not limited to, open flames, smoking, cutting and welding, hot surfaces, frictional heat, sparks (static, electrical, or mechanical), spontaneous ignition (that is, from heat-pro- ducing chemical reactions), and radiant heat. While ignitable or reactive waste is being handled, a transporter shall con- fine smoking and open flame to specially designated loca- tions. No Smoking signs shall be conspicuously placed wherever there is a hazard from ignitable or reactive waste;] 
D. A secondary containment system for storage of haz- ardous waste in containers at a transfer facility shall be designed, maintained, and operated as follows: 
(I) With a base under the container(s) which is free of cracks or gaps and is sufficiently impervious to contain leaks, spills, and accumulated precipitation until the collected material is detected and removed; 
(II) With the base sloped or the containment system designed and operated to drain and remove liquids resulting from leaks, spills, or precipitation, unless the containers are elevated or are otherwise protected from contact with accumulated liq- uids; 
(III) With a capacity equal to ten percent (10%) of the containerized waste volume or the volume of the largest contain- er, whichever is greater (Containers that do not contain free liq- uids need not be considered in this calculation.); 
(IV) With run-on into the containment system prevent- ed unless the collection system has sufficient excess capacity in addition to that specified in part (2)(A)10.D.(I) of this rule to contain any run-on which might enter the system; and 
(V) With removal of spilled or leaked waste and accu- mulated precipitation from the sump or collection area as neces- sary to prevent overflow of the collection system; and 
(VI) Including the containment system as part of the weekly inspections specified in 40 CFR 265.174 incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.265(1); 
E. The following requirements apply to the transporter’s management of ignitable, reactive, incompatible, or volatile 
wastes at a transfer facility: (I) Take precautions to prevent accidental ignition or 
reaction of ignitable or reactive wastes; (II) Separate and protect wastes identified in subpara- 
graph E. of this section from sources of ignition or reaction including, but not limited to, open flames, smoking, cutting and welding, hot surfaces, frictional heat, sparks (static, electrical, or mechanical), spontaneous ignition (that is, from heat-producing chemical reactions), and radiant heat; 
(III) While ignitable or reactive waste is being handled, confine smoking and open flame to specially designated loca- tions; and 
(IV) Conspicuously place No Smoking signs wherever there is a hazard from ignitable or reactive waste; 
F. Preparedness and prevention. A transporter shall equip the transfer station as specified in 40 CFR 265.32 incorporated by ref- erence in 10 CSR 25-7.265(1). In addition, a transporter shall also provide safety equipment such as fire blankets, gas masks, and self- contained breathing apparatus unless the hazards posed by the type of waste managed does not warrant using this additional safety equipment; 
G. Closure. At closure of the storage area, a transporter shall remove and properly dispose of all hazardous waste and hazardous residues. For the purpose of this subparagraph, closure shall occur when the storage of hazardous wastes has not occurred, or is not expected to occur for one (1) year, or when the transporter’s license lapses, whichever first occurs; 
H. The contents of separate containers of hazardous waste may not be combined at a transfer facility. Individual lab packed containers may be placed in a larger container if, [W]when con- tainers are overpacked, the transporter [shall] affixes labels to the overpack container, which are identical to the labels on the original shipping container; and 
I. A transfer facility shall not be the same facility as des- ignated in item [9] 8 of the manifest. 
(B) Compliance with the Manifest System and Record Keeping. This subsection sets forth requirements in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set forth in 40 CFR part 263 subpart B. 
1. Manifests. A. In lieu of the requirements in 40 CFR 263.20(a), the fol- 
lowing shall apply: 
[(I) In addition to the requirements in 10 CSR 25- 5.262, a transporter shall not accept hazardous waste from a generator unless it is accompanied by a manifest signed and dated by the generator which contains federally-required information in accordance with 10 CSR 25-5.262, except that the transporter may accept shipments of hazardous waste without a manifest from persons not required to reg- ister as provided in 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(A) provided that the waste is transported only to a facility which is permitted or certified to accept the waste. The transporter shall maintain records on wastes accepted from those generators which contain information including the type or identity of each waste, the source of each waste, and disposition of each waste. (Note: This paragraph is not intended to apply to municipal waste haulers who may unknowingly pick up small quantities of hazardous waste that may have been deposited in solid waste containers along their routes.) 
(II) Hazardous waste shall be transferred between licensed transporters only; and 
(III) For exports, the transporter shall also comply with the following requirements: A transporter may not accept hazardous waste from a primary exporter or other person—1) if s/he knows the shipment does not conform to the EPA Acknowledgement of Consent, and 2) unless, in addition to a manifest signed in accordance with 10 CSR 25- 5, the waste is also accompanied by an EPA Acknowledgement of Consent which, except for shipment 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1771 

by rail, is attached to the manifest (or shipping paper for exports by water (bulk shipment)). The shipping paper for exports by water (bulk shipment) shall contain all the infor- mation required on the manifest and, for exports, an EPA Acknowledgement of Consent shall accompany the haz- ardous waste. Rail transporters shall ensure that a shipping paper contains all the information required on the manifest and, for exports, an EPA Acknowledgement of Consent ac- companies the hazardous waste at all times. A transporter shall also provide a copy of the manifest to a United States Customs official at the point of departure from the United States.] 
(I) In addition to the requirements in 10 CSR 25-5.262, a transporter shall not accept hazardous waste from a generator unless it is accompanied by a completed uniform hazardous waste manifest signed and dated by the generator containing informa- tion in accordance with Subpart B of 40 CFR part 262, except that the transporter may accept shipments of hazardous waste without a manifest from persons not subject to registration as provided in 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(A) provided that the waste is transported only to a facility which is permitted or certified to accept the waste. The transporter shall maintain records on wastes accepted from those generators which contain information including the type or identity of each waste, the source of each waste, and disposition of each waste. (Note: This paragraph is not intended to apply to municipal waste haulers who may unknow- ingly pick up small quantities of hazardous waste that may have been deposited in solid waste containers along their routes.); 
(II) Hazardous waste shall be transferred between licensed transporters only; and 
(III) For exports, the transporter shall also comply with the following: 
(a) Accept no hazardous waste from a primary exporter or other person—1) if s/he knows the shipment does not conform to the EPA Acknowledgement of Consent, and 2) unless, in addition to a manifest signed in accordance with 10 CSR 25- 5, the waste is also accompanied by an EPA Acknowledgement of Consent which, except for shipment by rail, is attached to the manifest (or shipping paper for exports by water (bulk ship- ment)); 
(b) Use shipping papers for exports by water (bulk shipment) that contain all the information required on the man- ifest and, for exports, accompany the hazardous waste with an EPA Acknowledgement of Consent; 
(c) If a rail transporter, ensure that a shipping paper contains all the information required on the manifest and, for exports, an EPA Acknowledgement of Consent accompanies the hazardous waste at all times; 
(d) Provide a copy of the manifest to a United States Customs official at the point of departure from the United States. B. In addition to requirements in 40 CFR 263.22, the follow- ing shall apply: [Each day that a vehicle is used for the trans- portation of hazardous waste, the driver of that vehicle, prior to the transportation, shall inspect the vehicle to meet the requirements of 49 CFR 396.11 incorporated by reference in section (1) of this rule. The vehicle inspection shall be doc- umented in writing. At a minimum once annually, trans- porters shall provide and document hazardous waste/materi- als training for each driver employee who transports haz- ardous waste. Records relating to hazardous waste trans- portation shall be available to representatives of the depart- ment for inspection and copying during regular business hours. Current files on driver vehicle inspections, vehicle maintenance, annual employee training, and records of inci- dent reports shall also be maintained for a period of three (3) years by the licensed transporter regardless of whether the vehicle(s) is owned or leased. The period of record retention for these records also extends automatically during the course of any unresolved enforcement action, and the 
records shall be available to authorized representatives of the department for inspection and copying during regular busi- ness hours.] 
(I) Each day that a vehicle is used for the transportation of hazardous waste, the driver of that vehicle, prior to the trans- portation, shall inspect the vehicle to meet the requirements of 49 CFR 396.11 incorporated by reference in section (1) of this rule; 
(II) Document the vehicle inspection in writing; 
(III) At a minimum once annually, transporters shall provide and document hazardous waste/materials training for each driver employee who transports hazardous waste; 
(IV) Make records relating to hazardous waste trans- portation available to representatives of the department for inspection and copying during regular business hours; and 
(V) Maintain current files on driver vehicle inspections, vehicle maintenance, annual employee training, and records of incident reports for a period of three (3) years. Files shall be maintained by the licensed transporter regardless of whether the vehicle(s) is owned or leased. The period of record retention for these records also extends automatically during the course of any unresolved enforcement action, and the records shall be available to authorized representatives of the department for inspection and copying during regular business hours. 
2. (Reserved) (C) Immediate Action. In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR 
part 263 subpart C, the following shall apply: 1. In addition to requirements in 40 CFR 263.30(c)(1), the 
transporter shall also notify the department at the earliest practical moment of a hazardous waste discharge by calling the department’s emergency number, (573) 634-2436 (634-CHEM); and 
2. In addition to requirements in 40 CFR 263.30(c)(2), the transporter shall also submit a copy of that report to the department. (D) Operations of Transporters by Modes Other Than Power Unit. 1. A person who transports hazardous waste by a mode other than power unit shall comply with paragraphs (2)(A)1. and 2., parts (2)(A)3.A.(V), (2)(A)3.B.(I) and (III), subparagraph (2)(A)3.C., paragraphs (2)(A)7., 8., 9., and 10., and subsections (2)(B) and (C) 
of this rule. 2. Application form. An applicant shall submit a completed, 
department-furnished form which [shall] contains the following information: name, address, type of transport vehicles to be used in hazardous waste transport, and EPA identification number. If an EPA identification number has not been assigned by the EPA, the depart- ment will assign an identification number [as provided to the department by the EPA]. 
3. An applicant shall complete and submit a Non-Motor Carrier Certification of Financial Responsibility form provided by the depart- ment to satisfy the transporter insurance requirement. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 260.373, 260.385, and 260.395, [RSMo Supp. 2013, and section 260.385,] RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effective Oct. 1, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interested person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to testify 

Page 1772 
may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 7—Rules Applicable to Owners [or]/ Operators of Hazardous Waste Facilities 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-7.264 Standards for Owners and Operators of Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities. The commission proposes to amend sections (1), (2), and (3) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) The regulations set forth in 40 CFR part 264, July 1, 2013, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, are incorporated by reference. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. Except as provided otherwise in this rule, the substitution of terms set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) [shall] apply in this rule in addi- tion to any other modification set forth in section (2) of this rule. Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent [shall] rules control. 
(2) The owner or operator of a permitted hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facility shall comply with this section in addition to the regulations of 40 CFR part 264. In the case of contradictory or conflicting requirements, the more stringent [shall] requirements control. (Comment: This section has been organized so that all Missouri additions, changes, or deletions to any subpart of the fed- eral regulations are noted within the corresponding subsection of this section. For example, the requirements to be added to 40 CFR part 264 subpart E are found in subsection (2)(E) of this rule.) 
(A) General. This subsection sets forth requirements which mod- ify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 264 subpart A. 
[1. A treatment permit is not required under this rule for a resource recovery process that has been certified by the department in accordance with 10 CSR 25-9.020. Storage of hazardous waste prior to resource recovery must be in compliance with this rule.] 
(E) Manifest System, Record Keeping, and Reporting. This sub- section sets forth requirements which modify or add to those require- ments in 40 CFR part 264 subpart E. 
1. Missouri requires an original copy of the manifest to be sub- mitted to the department by all instate and out-of-state treatment, storage, or disposal facilities (TSDFs) in accordance with 40 CFR 264.71(e). 
facility shall submit a report to the department as set forth in this paragraph. 
A. All owners or operators shall comply with the reporting requirements in 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(D) regardless of whether the owner or operator is required to register as a generator pursuant to 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(A)1. 
B. In addition to the requirements in 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(D) for hazardous waste generated on-site and shipped off-site for treat- ment, storage, [resource recovery,] or disposal, the owner or oper- ator shall meet the same requirements for the following: 
(I) All hazardous waste generated on-site during the report- ing period that is managed on-site; and 
(II) All hazardous waste received from off-site during the reporting period, including hazardous waste generated by another generator and hazardous waste generated at other sites under the con- trol of the owner or operator. 
C. In addition to the information [required] specified in 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(D), an owner or operator shall include the follow- ing information in the summary report: 
(I) A description and the quantity of each hazardous waste that was both generated and managed on-site during the reporting period; 
(II) For each hazardous waste that was received from off- site, a description and the quantity of each hazardous waste, the cor- responding state, and EPA identification numbers of each generator; 
(III) For imports, the name and address of the foreign gen- erator; 
(IV) The corresponding method of treatment, storage, [resource recovery,] disposal, or other approved management method used for each hazardous waste; and 
(V) The quantity and description of hazardous waste residue generated by the facility[; and]. 
[(VI) A summary of both quantitative and qualitative groundwater monitoring data that was received during the reporting period, as required in 40 CFR part 264 subpart F incorporated in this rule and subsection (2)(F) of this rule. (Comment: This does not change the frequency of monitor- ing required by rules or in specific permit conditions. It only changes the frequency of reporting.)] 
3. As outlined in section 260.380.2, RSMo, all owners or oper- ators shall pay a fee to the department of two dollars ($2) per ton or portion thereof for any and all hazardous waste received from outside of Missouri. This fee [shall be] is referred to as the Out-of-State Waste Fee and [shall not be paid on] does not apply to hazardous waste received directly from other permitted treatment, storage, and disposal facilities located in Missouri. 
A. For each owner or operator, this fee shall be paid on or before January 1 of each year and [shall be] is based on the total tons of hazardous waste received in the aggregate by that owner or operator for the twelve- (12-) month period ending the previous June 30. As outlined in section 260.380.4, RSMo, failure to pay this fee in full by the due date shall result in imposition of a late fee equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the total original fee. Each twelve- (12-) month period ending on June 30 shall be referred to as a reporting year. 
B. Owners or operators may elect, but are not required, to pay this fee on a quarterly basis at the time they file the [reporting required] reports specified in subparagraphs (2)(E)3.B. and C. of this rule. If they do not choose to pay the fee quarterly, owners or operators may elect, but are not required, to pay the fee at the time they file their final quarterly report of each reporting year. However, the total fee for each reporting year must be paid on or before January 1 immediately following the end of each reporting year. 
2. The owner or operator of a hazardous waste management 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1773 

EXAMPLES OF OUT-OF-STATE WASTE FEE CALCULATION 
Example 1. ABC Company reports receiving 250 tons of hazardous waste from outside of Missouri: $2 × 250 tons = $500 fee 
Example 2. ABC Company reports receiving 410.6 tons of hazardous waste from outside of Missouri. The number of tons would be rounded to 411: 
$2 × 411 tons = $822 fee 
Example 3. ABC Company reports receiving 52,149.3 tons of hazardous waste from outside of Missouri. The number of tons would be rounded to 52,150: 
$2 × 52,150 tons = $104,300 fee 
(I) Containers. This subsection sets forth requirements in addition to 40 CFR part 264 subpart I incorporated in this rule. 
1. Containers storing hazardous waste must be labeled in accor- dance with 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(C) during the entire storage period. [2. Containers holding ignitable or reactive waste that are stored outdoors or in buildings not equipped with sprin- kler systems shall be located at least fifty feet (50’) from the 
facility’s property line. 3. Containers holding ignitable or reactive waste that 
are stored indoors shall be located at least fifty feet (50’) from the facility’s property line unless the following require- ments are satisfied: 
A. Exposing walls that are located more than ten feet (10’) but less than fifty feet (50’) from a boundary line of adjoining property that can be built upon shall have a fire- resistance rating of at least two (2) hours, with each opening protected by an automatically-closing listed one and one- half- (1.5-) hour (B) fire door; 
B. Exposing walls that are located less than ten feet (10’) from a boundary line of adjoining property, that can be built upon, shall have a fire-resistance rating of at least four (4) hours, with each opening protected by an automatically- closing listed three- (3-) hour (A) fire door (Comment: All fire doors, closure devices, and windows shall be installed in accordance with the National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) Code 80, Standards for Fire Doors and Windows, 1995 edi- tion); 
C. The construction design of exterior walls shall pro- vide ready accessibility for fire-fighting operations through the provision of access openings, windows, or lightweight noncombustible wall panels; 
D. Container storage areas shall be provided with automatic fire suppression systems designed and installed in accordance with the NFPA 14 (1996 edition), NFPA 15 (1996 edition), NFPA 16 (1995 edition), NFPA 16A (1994 edition), NFPA 17 (1998 edition), NFPA 17A (1998 edition), NFPA 18 (1995 edition), NFPA 20 (1996 edition), NFPA 22 (1996 edition), and NFPA 24 (1995 edition) standards. Final design of these systems shall be approved by a qualified, registered professional engineer in Missouri; 
E. Each container storage area shall have preconnect- ed hose lines capable of reaching the entire area. The fire hose shall be either a one and one-half inch (1.5”) line or a one inch (1”) hard rubber line. Where a one and one-half inch (1.5”) fire hose is used, it shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 14 (1996 edition). Hand-held fire extinguishers rated for the appropriate class of fire shall be available at each storage area; 
F. Only containers meeting the requirements of, and containing products authorized by, Chapter I, Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations (DOT Regulations) or NFPA 386, 
Standard for Portable Shipping Tanks shall be used; G. All storage of ignitable or reactive materials shall be organized in a manner which will not physically obstruct a means of egress. Materials shall not be placed in a manner that a fire would preclude egress from the area. Evacuation plans shall recognize the locations of any automatically-clos- 
ing fire doors; H. All containers shall be arranged so there is a mini- 
mum aisle space of four feet (4’) between rows, allowing accessibility to each individual container. Double rows can be utilized. Containers shall not be stacked or placed closer than three feet (3’) from ceilings or any roof members, or both; and 
I. Explosive gas levels in the facility shall be monitored continuously. If the facility is not manned twenty-four (24) hours per day, a telemetry system shall be provided to alarm designated response personnel.] 
(3) Permitted hazardous waste TSD facilities that accept and/or ship hazardous waste via railroad tank car (railcar) shall comply with the requirements for container storage in 40 CFR part 264 subpart I, as incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.264(1), or the following requirements for railcar management. 
(A) The owner or operator shall submit a railcar management plan with the application for a hazardous waste treatment, storage, or dis- posal facility permit. Permitted facilities that currently accept and/or ship hazardous waste via railcars shall request a Class I permit mod- ification that requires prior director approval for the railcar manage- ment plan according to the procedures defined in 40 CFR 270.42 as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1). 
1. The railcar management plan shall describe steps to be taken by the facility in order to comply with the requirements of subsec- tions (3)(B)–(3)(F). 
2. The railcar management plan [shall] will be maintained at the facility. 
(B) Railcars shall not be used as container or tank storage units at a facility unless the owner or operator complies with the standards for container storage set forth in 40 CFR part 264 subpart I as incor- porated in this rule and 40 CFR 270.15 as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. During the time allowed for loading and unloading as set forth in this section, the railcar [shall] is not [be] considered to be in storage. 
1. The owner or operator shall ship hazardous wastes loaded onto a railcar within seventy-two (72) hours after loading is initiated. For the purposes of this section, shipment occurs when— 
A. The transporter signs and dates the manifest acknowledg- ing acceptance of the hazardous waste; 
B. The transporter returns a signed copy of the manifest to the facility; and 
C. The railcar crosses the property boundary line of the TSD facility. 

Page 1774 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
2. The owner or operator shall have a maximum of ten (10) days following receipt of a shipment to unload hazardous waste from incoming railcars. The amount of time allowed for unloading shall be specified in the approved railcar management plan for each facility as part of the permit. The department will review and approve each railcar management plan on a case-by-case basis and will base its decision regarding the time allowed for unloading on factors includ- ing, but not limited to, the size of the rail siding, surveillance and security standards, enclosure of the facility, type, and amount of emergency response equipment, and the facility’s capacity to handle incidents. Unless more time is allowed by an approved railcar man- agement plan, the owner or operator shall unload hazardous waste from an incoming railcar within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of the shipment. For the purposes of this section, receipt of the ship- ment occurs when— 
A. The owner or operator signs the shipping paper; or B. The owner or operator signs the manifest; or C. The railcar crosses the property boundary line of the TSD 
facility. 3. The time limits in this subsection may be extended for up to 
an additional twenty-four (24) hours for Saturdays, Sundays, or pub- lic holidays as defined in section 9.010, RSMo, that fall within the time period approved in the railcar management plan. 
4. If the owner or operator finds that a railcar shipment must be rejected, the railcar shall be shipped within twenty-four (24) hours of that determination, or within the time period approved in the railcar management plan, whichever is later. The rejection and the reasons for the rejection shall be documented in the facility’s operating record. 
5. The owner or operator shall attempt to arrange for the rail carrier to provide the owner or operator a notification detailing when a railcar was picked up from the facility or when a railcar was deliv- ered to the facility. If the rail carrier declines to enter into such arrangements, the owner or operator must document the refusal in the operating record. The time limitations set forth in this subsection must be documented by recording dates and times in the facility’s operating record. 
6. If the loading and unloading time frames specified in this sec- tion are exceeded, then the owner or operator utilizing railcars shall comply with the standards for container storage in 40 CFR part 264 subpart I, as incorporated in this rule, and with 40 CFR 270.15, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 260.390, and 260.395, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effective Oct. 1, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous 
Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 7—Rules Applicable to Owners [or]/ Operators of Hazardous Waste Facilities 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-7.265 Interim Status Standards for Owners and Operators of Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities. The commission proposes to amend section (2) and delete section (3) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(2) The owner or operator of a treatment, storage, or disposal (TSD) facility shall comply with the requirements noted in this section in addition to requirements set forth in 40 CFR part 265 incorporated in this rule. [In the case of contradictory or conflicting require- ments in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent shall control.] (Comment: This section has been organized so that all Missouri additions, changes, or deletions to any subpart of the federal regula- tions are noted within the corresponding subsection of this section. For example, the additional requirements to be added to 40 CFR part 265 subpart A are found in subsection (2)(A) of this rule.) 
(A) General. In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR part 265 subpart A, the following regulations also apply: 
[1. This rule does not apply to an owner or operator for that portion of or process at the facility which is in compli- ance with 10 CSR 25-9.020 Hazardous Waste Resource Recovery Processes. (Note: Underground injection wells are prohibited in Missouri by section 577.155, RSMo.); and] 
[2.]1. State interim status is authorization to operate a haz- ardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facility pursuant to sec- tion 260.395.15, RSMo, 10 CSR 25-7.265, and 10 CSR 25-7.270 until the final administrative disposition of the permit application is made or until interim status is terminated pursuant to 10 CSR 25- 7.270. The owner or operator of a facility or unit operating under state interim status shall comply with the requirements of this rule and 10 CSR 25-7.270. In addition to providing notification to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the owner or operator is required to provide state notification in accordance with 10 CSR 25- 7.270. 
(E) Manifest System, Record Keeping, and Reporting. This sub- section sets forth standards which modify or add to those require- ments in 40 CFR part 265 subpart E. 
1. All owners or operators shall comply with the reporting requirements in 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(D) regardless of whether the owner or operator is required to register as a generator pursuant to 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(A)1. 
2. In addition to the requirements in 10 CSR 25-5.262(2)(D) for hazardous waste generated on-site and shipped off-site for treatment, storage, [resource recovery,] or disposal, the owner or operator shall meet the same requirements for the following: 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1775 

A. All hazardous waste generated on-site during the reporting period that is managed on-site; and 
B. All hazardous waste received from off-site during the reporting period, including hazardous waste generated by another generator and hazardous waste generated at other sites under the con- trol of the owner or operator. 
3. In addition to the information required in 10 CSR 25- 5.262(2)(D), an owner or operator shall include the following infor- mation in the summary report: 
A. A description and the quantity of each hazardous waste that was both generated and managed on-site during the reporting period; 
B. For each hazardous waste that is received from off-site, a description and the quantity of each hazardous waste and the corre- sponding state and EPA identification numbers of each generator; 
C. For imports, the name and address of the foreign genera- tor; 
D. The corresponding method of treatment, storage, [resource recovery,] disposal, or other approved management method used for each hazardous waste. 
4. As outlined in section 260.380.2, RSMo, all owners or oper- ators [shall] pay a fee to the department of two dollars ($2) per ton or portion thereof for any and all hazardous waste received from out- side of Missouri. This fee [shall be] is referred to as the Out-of- State Waste Fee and [shall] is not [be] paid on hazardous waste received directly from other permitted treatment, storage, and dis- posal facilities located in Missouri. 
A. For each owner or operator, this fee shall be paid on or before January 1 of each year and [shall be] is based on the total tons of hazardous waste received in the aggregate by that owner or operator for the twelve- (12-) month period ending the previous June 30. As outlined in section 260.380.4, RSMo, failure to pay this fee in full by the due date shall result in imposition of a late fee equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the total original fee. Each twelve- (12-) month period ending on June 30 [shall be] is referred to as a report- ing year. 
B. Owners or operators may elect, but are not required, to pay this fee on a quarterly basis at the time they file the reporting [required] specified in subparagraphs (2)(E)3.B. and C. of this rule. If they do not choose to pay the fee quarterly, owners or operators may elect, but are not required, to pay the fee at the time they file their final quarterly or annual report of each reporting year. However, the total fee for each reporting year must be paid on or before January 1 immediately following the end of each reporting year. 
EXAMPLES OF OUT-OF-STATE WASTE FEE CALCULATION 
Example 1. ABC Company reports receiving 250 tons of hazardous waste from outside of Missouri: $2 × 250 tons = $500 fee 
Example 2. ABC Company reports receiving 410.6 tons of hazardous waste from outside of Missouri. The number of tons would be rounded to 411. 
$2 × 411 tons = $822 fee 
Example 3. ABC Company reports receiving 52,149.3 tons of hazardous waste from outside of Missouri. The number of tons would be rounded to 52,150. 
$2 × 52,150 tons = $104,300 fee 


Page 1776 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(I) Use and Management of Containers. [This subsection sets forth additional standards for container storage areas.] (Reserved) 
[1. Containers holding ignitable or reactive waste which are stored outdoors or in buildings not equipped with sprin- kler systems shall be located at least fifty feet (50’) from the facility’s property line. 
2. Containers holding ignitable or reactive waste which are stored indoors shall be located at least fifty feet (50’) from the facility’s property line, unless the following require- ments are satisfied: 
A. Exposing walls that are located more than ten feet (10’) but less than fifty feet (50’) from a boundary line of adjoining property that can be built upon shall have a fire- resistance rating of at least two (2) hours, with each opening protected by an automatically-closing listed one and one- half- (1.5-) hour (B) fire door; 
B. Exposing walls that are located less than ten feet (10’) from a boundary line of adjoining property that can be built upon shall have a fire-resistance rating of at least four (4) hours, with each opening protected by an automatically- closing listed three- (3-) hour (A) fire door (Comment: All fire doors, closure devices, and windows shall be installed in accordance with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Code 80, Standards for Fire Doors and Windows, 1995 edition); 
C. The construction design of exterior walls shall pro- vide ready accessibility for fire-fighting operations through the provision of access openings, windows, or lightweight noncombustible wall panels; 
D. Container storage areas shall be provided with automatic fire suppression systems designed and installed in accordance with NFPA 14 (1996 edition), NFPA 15 (1996 edition), NFPA 16 (1995 edition), NFPA 16A (1994 edition), NFPA 17 (1998 edition), NFPA 17A (1998 edition), NFPA 18 (1995 edition), NFPA 20 (1996 edition), NFPA 22 (1996 edi- tion), and NFPA 24 (1995 edition) Standards. Final design of these systems shall be approved by a qualified, registered professional engineer in Missouri; 
E. Each container storage area shall have preconnect- ed hose lines capable of reaching the entire area. The fire hose shall be a one and one-half inch (1.5”) line or one inch (1”) hard rubber line. Where a one and one-half inch (1.5”) fire hose is used, it shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 14 (1996 edition). Hand-held fire extinguishers rated for the appropriate class of fire shall be available at each storage area; 
F. Only containers meeting the requirements of, and containing products authorized by, Chapter I, Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations (DOT Regulations) or NFPA 386, Standard for Portable Shipping Tanks (1990 edition) shall be used; 
G. All storage of ignitable or reactive materials shall be organized in a manner which will not physically obstruct a means of egress. Materials shall not be placed in a manner that a fire would preclude egress from the area. Evacuation plans shall recognize the locations of any automatically-clos- ing fire doors; 
H. All containers shall be arranged so that there is a minimum aisle space of four feet (4’) between rows, allow- ing accessibility to each individual container. Double rows can be utilized. Containers shall not be stacked, placed, or both, closer than three feet (3’) from ceilings or any roof members; and 
I. Explosive gas levels in the facility shall be monitored continuously. If the facility is not manned twenty-four (24) hours per day, a telemetry system shall be provided to alarm designated response personnel.] 
[(3) Interim status hazardous waste TSD facilities that accept and/or ship hazardous waste via railroad tank car (railcar) shall comply with the requirements for container storage in 40 CFR part 265 subpart I, as incorporated by ref- erence in 10 CSR 25-7.265(1), or the following requirements for railcar management: 
(A) The owner or operator shall submit a railcar manage- ment plan with the application for a hazardous waste treat- ment, storage, or disposal facility permit. Interim status facil- ities that currently accept and/or ship hazardous waste via railcars shall request a change in interim status that requires director approval for the railcar management plan according to the procedures defined in 40 CFR 270.72 as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1). 
1. The railcar management plan shall describe steps to be taken by the facility in order to comply with the require- ments of subsections (3)(B)–(3)(F). 
2. The railcar management plan shall be maintained at the facility; 
(B) Railcars shall not be used as container or tank storage units at a facility unless the owner or operator complies with the standards for container storage set forth in 40 CFR part 265 subpart I as incorporated in this rule and 40 CFR 270.15 as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1). During the time allowed for loading and unloading as set forth in this section, the railcar shall not be considered to be in storage. 
1. The owner or operator shall ship hazardous wastes loaded onto a railcar within seventy-two (72) hours after loading is initiated. For the purposes of this section, ship- ment occurs when— 
A. The transporter signs and dates the manifest acknowledging acceptance of the hazardous waste; 
B. The transporter returns a signed copy of the mani- fest to the facility; and 
C. The railcar crosses the property boundary line of the TSD facility. 
2. The owner or operator shall have a maximum of ten (10) days following receipt of a shipment to unload haz- ardous waste from incoming railcars. The amount of time allowed for unloading shall be specified in the approved rail- car management plan for each facility as part of the permit. The department will review and approve each railcar man- agement plan on a case-by-case basis and will base its deci- sion regarding the time allowed for unloading on factors including, but not limited to, the size of the rail siding, sur- veillance and security standards, enclosure of the facility, type, and amount of emergency response equipment, and the facility’s capacity to handle incidents. Unless more time is allowed by an approved railcar management plan, the owner or operator shall unload hazardous waste from an incoming railcar within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of the shipment. For the purposes of this section, receipt of the shipment occurs when— 
A. The owner or operator signs the shipping paper; or B. The owner or operator signs the manifest; or C. The railcar crosses the property boundary line of 
the TSD facility. 3. The time limits in this subsection may be extended 
for up to an additional twenty-four (24) hours for Saturdays, Sundays, or public holidays as defined in section 9.010, RSMo, that fall within the time period approved in the railcar management plan. 
4. If the owner or operator finds that a railcar shipment must be rejected, the railcar shall be shipped within twenty- four (24) hours of that determination, or within the time period approved in the railcar management plan, whichever is later. The rejection and the reasons for the rejection shall be documented in the facility’s operating record. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1777 

5. The owner or operator shall attempt to arrange for the rail carrier to provide the owner or operator a notification detailing when a railcar was picked up from the facility or when a railcar was delivered to the facility. If the rail carrier declines to enter into such arrangements, the owner or oper- ator must document the refusal in the operating record. The time limitations set forth in this subsection must be docu- mented by recording dates and times in the facility’s operat- ing record. 
6. If the loading and unloading time frames specified in this section are exceeded, then the owner or operators uti- lizing railcars shall comply with the standards for container storage in 40 CFR part 265 subpart I, as incorporated in this rule, and with 40 CFR 270.15, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270; 
(C) The owner or operator shall comply with 40 CFR 265.17, incorporated in this rule, during railcar loading and unloading. Additional specific precautions to be taken shall include facility design, construction, operation, and mainte- nance standards as specified in “Loading and Unloading Operations: Tank Vehicles and Tank Cars” in section 5-4.4.1 of the 1993 Edition of the National Fire Protection Association Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code (NFPA 30); 
(D) The owner or operator shall provide security for rail- cars at the facility by utilizing one (1) of the alternatives specified in 40 CFR 265.14(b), as incorporated in this rule. If the owner or operator demonstrates that it is not practical to provide security for railcars at the facility as specified in 40 CFR 265.14(b), incorporated in this rule, railcars shall be secured by locking all fill and drain posts upon receipt of a loaded railcar or upon completion of the owner or operator’s loading procedures. The locks must remain in place until the owner or operator begins unloading procedures or until the rail carrier picks up the loaded or rejected railcar for trans- port off-site; 
(E) In accordance with 40 CFR 265.15, incorporated in this rule, the owner or operator shall inspect railcars and sur- rounding areas at least daily looking for leaks and for deteri- oration caused by corrosion or other factors; and 
(F) In accordance with 40 CFR part 265 subpart C and 40 CFR part 265 subpart D, as incorporated in this rule, the owner or operator shall develop preparedness and prevention procedures and a contingency plan for railcars. If the owner or operator has not prepared a Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures (SPCC) Plan for hazardous waste, then one must be developed that parallels requirements and guidelines as specified in 40 CFR part 112 for oil. At a min- imum, the SPCC Plan must include adequate spill response equipment and preventative measures, such as dikes, curb- ing, and containment systems.] 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 260.390, and 260.395, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effective Oct. 1, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference 
Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 7—Rules Applicable to Owners [or]/ Operators of Hazardous Waste Facilities 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-7.266 Standards for the Management of Specific Hazardous Wastes and Specific Types of Hazardous Waste Management Facilities. The commission proposes to amend section (2) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(2) Persons subject to the regulations in 40 CFR part 266 shall com- ply with the requirements, changes, additions, or deletions noted in this section in addition to 40 CFR part 266 incorporated in this rule. [(Comment: This section has been organized so that all Missouri additions or changes to any subpart of the federal regulations are noted within the corresponding subsection of this section. For example, the changes to the management requirements for hazardous waste fuels, 40 CFR part 266 subpart D, are found in subsection (2)(D) of this rule.)] 
(C) Recyclable Materials Used in a Manner Constituting Disposal. 
[In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR part 266 subpart C incorporated in this rule, a person who is marketing haz- ardous waste recyclable materials which would be used in a manner constituting disposal must obtain a hazardous waste resource recovery certification pursuant to 10 CSR 25- 9.020.] (Reserved) 
(G) [Spent Lead-Acid Batteries Being Reclaimed. In addi- tion to the requirements in 40 CFR part 266 subpart G, a person who reclaims materials from spent lead-acid batteries shall obtain a hazardous waste resource recovery certifica- tion pursuant to 10 CSR 25-9.020.] (Reserved) 
(H) [Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces. Additions, modifications, and deletions to 40 CFR part 266 subpart H “Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces” are as follows:] (Reserved) 
[1. Add the following provision to 40 CFR 266.100(d) incorporated in this rule: “The owner or operator of facilities that process hazardous waste solely for metal recovery in accordance with 40 CFR 266.100(d) shall be certified for resource recovery pursuant to 10 CSR 25-9.020”.] 

Page 1778 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(M) Military Munitions. Additions, modifications, and deletions to 40 CFR part 266 subpart M “Military Munitions” are: 
1. Oral and written notifications required by 40 CFR 266.203(a)(1) and 40 CFR 266.205(a)(1) shall be submitted to the department’s emergency response coordinator at (573) 634-2436 or (573) 634-CHEM, in lieu of the director[; and]. 
[2. Oral and written notifications required by 40 CFR 266.205(a)(1) shall be submitted to the department’s emer- gency response coordinator at (573) 634-2436 or (573) 634-CHEM, in lieu of the director.] 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 260.373, 260.390, and 260.395, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effec- tive Oct. 1, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 7—Rules Applicable to Owners [or]/ Operators of Hazardous Waste Facilities 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-7.270 Missouri Administered Permit Programs: The Hazardous Waste Permit Program. The commission proposes to amend sections (1) and (2) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) The regulations set forth in 40 CFR part 270, July 1, 2013, except for the changes made at 70 FR 53453 September 8, 2005, and 73 FR 64667 to 73 FR 64788, October 30, 2008, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 
15250-7954, are incorporated by reference. This rule does not incor- porate any subsequent amendments or additions. Except as provided otherwise in this rule, the substitution of terms set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) shall apply in this rule in addition to any other mod- ifications set forth in section (2) of this rule. Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent [shall] rules control. 
(A) Any federal agency, administrator, regulation, or statute that is referenced in 40 CFR part 270 [shall be] is deleted and the compa- rable state department, director, rule, or statute as provided in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) [shall be] is added in its place except as spec- ified in this rule. The additional substitutions or changes noted in this subsection [shall] also apply. 
(2) The owner or operator of a permitted hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal (TSD) facility shall comply with the require- ments noted in this rule along with 40 CFR part 270, incorporated in this rule. [(Comment: This section has been organized so that all Missouri additions, changes, or deletions to any sub- part of the federal regulations are noted within the corre- sponding subsection of this section. For example, the changes to 40 CFR part 270 subpart A are found in subsec- tion (2)(A) of this rule.)] 
(A) General Information. This subsection sets forth requirements which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 270 sub- part A. 
1. When a facility is owned by one (1) person but is operated by another person, both the owner and operator shall sign the permit application, and the permit shall be issued to both. 
2. The owner or operator of a new hazardous waste management facility shall contact the department and obtain a United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) identification number [before commencing] as part of the application process for a hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal [of hazardous waste] permit. 
3. In 40 CFR 270.3 “Considerations Under Federal Law,” do not substitute any comparable Missouri statute or administrative rule for the federal acts and regulations. This does not relieve the owner or operator of his/her responsibility to comply with any applicable and comparable state law or rule in addition to complying with the federal acts and regulations. 
(B) Permit Application. This subsection sets forth requirements which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 270 sub- part B. 
1. Existing hazardous waste management facilities must submit a Part A permit application to the department no later than sixty (60) days after the effective date of state rules which first require them to comply with the requirements set forth in 10 CSR 25-7.265 or 10 CSR 25-7.266. A facility which did not meet federal notification and Part A submittal requirements under the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments (HSWA) [shall] does not qualify for state interim sta- tus. State interim status is granted to those facilities which either meet federal interim status requirements, are required to meet state interim status requirements because no federal interim status require- ments affect the filing, or become subject to regulations under state rules which are not promulgated to meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 271. 
2. Confidentiality may be requested for [the] certain permit application information [required in] submitted pursuant to 40 CFR 270.13(a)–(m) incorporated in this rule. 10 CSR 25- 3.260(1)(B) sets forth requirements for protection of confidential business information and the availability of information provided under 10 CSR 25. Therefore, 40 CFR 270.12 is not incorporated by reference in this rule. 
3. All submitted engineering plans and reports shall be approved by a registered professional engineer licensed by Missouri. The engineering plans and reports shall specify the materials, equip- ment, construction methods, design standards, and specifications for hazardous waste management facilities, and processes that will be 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1779 

utilized in the construction and operation of the facility. The engi- neering plans and reports shall also include a diagram of any piping, instrumentation, or process flows, and descriptions of any feed sys- tems, safety cutoffs, bypass systems, and pressure controls (for exam- ple, vents). 
4. The permit application fee set forth in 10 CSR 25-12.010 shall be submitted with the application. 
5. The department will supervise any field work undertaken to collect geologic and engineering data which is to be submitted with the application. The applicant shall contact the department at least five (5) working days prior to conducting any field work that is undertaken to collect geologic and engineering data which is to be submitted with the application. A fee shall also be assessed pursuant to 10 CSR 25-12.010 for all costs incurred by the department in the observation of field work, engineering, and geological review of the application, and all other review necessary by the department to ver- ify that the application complies with section 260.395.7., RSMo. 
6. The permit application shall include the following informa- tion for the purpose of notification: 
A. Names and address of all persons listed on the facility mailing list as defined in 10 CSR 25-8.124(1)(A)10.C.(I)(c) [shall be] submitted in the form of an alphabetical list with five (5) sets of addressed, self-adhesive mailing labels also included; and 
B. The name, address, and telephone number of the location where the permit application and supporting documents are to be placed, as described in 10 CSR 25-8.124(1)(B)3.B.(II)(c) and the name of the person at that location who may be contacted to schedule a review of the documents. 
7. An applicant may be required to submit other information as may be necessary to enable the department to carry out its duties. 
8. The owner or operator of a permitted [or interim status] treatment, storage, and disposal (TSD) facility that accepts and/or ships hazardous waste via railroad tank car (railcar) may submit a railcar management plan in accordance with the requirements set forth in 10 CSR 25-7.264(3) [or 10 CSR 25-7.265(3), as applic- able]. 
9. The person applying for a permit under sections 260.350– 260.434, RSMo, shall comply with the requirements of 10 CSR 25- 8.124(1). 
(C) Permit Conditions. This subsection sets forth requirements which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 270 sub- part C. 
1. This paragraph sets forth the procedures for issuance of a hazardous waste facility permit, construction certification, and authorization to begin operation. 
A. If, after public notice in accordance with 10 CSR 25- 8.124 and review of the application, the department determines that the application conforms with the provisions of sections 260.350– 260.434, RSMo, and all standards and rules corresponding, the department shall issue the hazardous waste facility permit to the applicant upon payment of a fee of one thousand dollars ($1000) for each facility for each year the permit is to be in effect beyond the first year. [The department will issue an EPA identification number to the facility at the time.] 
B. The appeal period for a permit or any condition of a per- mit [shall] begins on the date of issuance of the permit as [required] specified in subparagraph (2)(C)1.A. of this rule. However, for the purposes of termination of interim status pursuant to 40 CFR 270.73(a) incorporated in this rule, final administrative disposition of the permit application [shall] occurs either— 
(I) Thirty (30) days after issuance of a [letter of autho- rization] final permit pursuant to this rule, unless a notice of appeal is filed with the commission within that time; 
(II) Thirty (30) days after permit denial [of authorization to operate] pursuant to this rule, unless a notice of appeal is filed with the commission within that time; or 
(III) Upon the issuance of a decision by the commission, after timely appeal of an action of this rule. 
2. The department may deny the permit application if— 
A. The applicant fails to submit a complete application in accordance with, and within the time specified in, a notice of defi- ciency issued pursuant to 10 CSR 25-8.124(1)(A)3.; 
B. The applicant has failed to fully disclose all relevant infor- mation in the application or during the permit issuance process or has misrepresented facts at any time; 
C. The department determines that the application does not conform with the provisions of sections 260.350–260.434, RSMo, and all corresponding standards and rules, or that the facility cannot be effectively operated and maintained in full compliance with sec- tions 260.350–260.434, RSMo, and all corresponding standards and rules, or that the facility is being operated or maintained in violation of a present permit, or that continued operation of the facility pre- sents an unreasonable threat to human health or the environment or will create or allow for the continuance of a public nuisance; 
D. The department determines that one (1) of the conditions specified in section 260.395.17., RSMo, is present; or 
E. The applicant owner or operator fails to submit the permit fees [required by] specified in subparagraph (2)(C)1.A. of this rule within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice from the department that the fees are due. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 260.373, 260.390, and 260.395, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effec- tive Oct. 1, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 8—Public Participation and General Procedural Requirements 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-8.124 Procedures for Decision Making. The commis- sion proposes to amend sections (1), (2), (3), and (5) and delete sec- tion (4) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and haz- ardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the department’s 

Page 1780 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing regulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing lit- tle to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes con- sistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) Except as provided otherwise in this rule, the substitution of terms set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) [shall] apply in this rule, in addition to any other modifications established in paragraph (1)(A)2. of this rule. Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent [shall] rules control. (Comment: This section has been organized so that Missouri requirements analogous to a partic- ular lettered subpart in 40 CFR part 124 are set forth in the corre- sponding lettered subsection of section (1) of this rule. For example, the general program requirements in 40 CFR part 124 subpart A, with Missouri modifications, are found in subsection (1)(A) of this rule.) 
(A) This subsection sets forth requirements that correspond to those requirements in 40 CFR part 124 subpart A. 
1. Purpose and scope. This subsection contains procedures for the review, issuance, class 3 or department-initiated modification, total modification, or revocation of all permits issued pursuant to sections 260.350 through 260.434, RSMo. This subsection also con- tains procedures for the denial of a permit, either in its entirety or as to the active life of a hazardous waste management facility or unit, under 40 CFR 270.29, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. Interim status is not a permit and is covered by specific provisions in 10 CSR 25-7.265 and 10 CSR 25-7.270. Class 1 or class 2 permit modifica- tions, as defined in 40 CFR 270.42 as incorporated in 10 CSR 25- 7.270, are not subject to the requirements of this subsection. 
2. Definitions. In addition to the definitions given in 40 CFR 270.2, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270, the definitions below apply to this rule— 
A. “Draft permit” means a document prepared under para- graph (1)(A)6. of this rule indicating the department’s tentative deci- sion to issue, deny, modify in part or in total, revoke, or reissue a “permit.” A notice of intent to revoke, as discussed in subparagraph (1)(A)5.D. of this rule, and a notice of intent to deny, as discussed in subparagraph (1)(A)6.B. of this rule, are types of draft permits. A denial of a request for modification, total modification, or revocation of a permit, as discussed in subparagraph (1)(A)5.B. of this rule, is not a type of “draft permit”; 
B. “Formal hearing” means any contested case held under section 260.400, RSMo; 
C. “Permit application” means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency standard national forms for applying for a permit, including any additions, revisions, or modifications to the forms; or forms approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for use in Missouri, including any approved modifications or revisions. It also includes the information [required] specified by the depart- ment under 40 CFR 270.14–270.29, as incorporated into 10 CSR 25-7.270; 
D. “Public hearing” means any hearing on a tentative deci- sion at which any member of the public is invited to give oral or written comments; 
E. “Revocation” means the termination of a permit; 
F. “Schedule of compliance” means a schedule of remedial measures in a permit, including an enforceable sequence of interim requirements (for example, actions, operations, or milestone events) leading to compliance with sections 260.350 through 260.434, RSMo; 
G. “Total modification” means the revocation and reissuance of a permit; 
H. “Site” means the land or water area where any “facility or activity” is physically located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the facility or activity; and 
I. “Variance” means any variation from the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Law as defined in section 260.405, 
RSMo. 3. Application for a permit. 
A. Any person who requires a permit shall complete, sign, and submit to the department a permit application for each permit required under 40 CFR 270.1, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. Permit applications are not required for permits by rule per 40 CFR 270.60, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. The department shall not begin the processing of a permit until the applicant has fully com- plied with the permit application requirements for that permit, as provided under 40 CFR 270.10 and 270.13, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. Permit applications shall comply with the signature and certification requirements of 40 CFR 270.11, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270(2)(A.)1., and 10 CSR 25-7.270. 
B. The department shall review for completeness every per- mit application. Each permit application submitted by a new facility should be reviewed for completeness by the department within thirty (30) days of its receipt. Each permit application submitted by an existing facility should be reviewed for completeness by the depart- ment within sixty (60) days of its receipt. Upon completing the review, the department will notify the applicant in writing whether the permit application is complete. If the permit application is incomplete, the department will list the information necessary to make the permit application complete. When the permit application is for an existing facility, the department will specify, in the notice of deficiency, a date for submitting the necessary information. The department will notify the applicant that the permit application is complete upon receiving the required information. After the permit application is complete, the department may request additional infor- mation from an applicant, but only as necessary to clarify, modify, or supplement previously submitted material. Requests for such addi- tional information will not render a permit application incomplete. 
C. If an applicant fails or refuses to correct deficiencies in the permit application, the permit may be denied and enforcement actions may be taken under the applicable statutory provisions of sec- tions 260.350 through 260.434, RSMo. 
D. The effective date of a permit application is the date the department notifies the applicant that the permit application is com- plete, as provided in subparagraph (1)(A)3.B. of this rule. 
E. For each permit application the department will, no later than the effective date of the permit application, prepare and mail to the applicant a project decision schedule. The schedule will specify target dates by which the department intends to— 
(I) Prepare a draft permit; (II) Give public notice; (III) Complete the public comment period, including any 
public hearing; and (IV) Issue a final permit decision. 
F. If the department decides that a site visit is necessary for any reason in conjunction with the processing of a permit applica- tion, the department will notify the applicant and a date will be scheduled. 
G. Whenever a facility or activity requires more than one (1) type of environmental permit from the state, the applicant may request, or the department may offer, a unified permitting schedule that covers the timing and order to obtain such permits, as provided in section 640.017, RSMo, and 10 CSR 1-3.010. 
4. Reserved. 5. Modification, total modification, or revocation of permits. 
A. Permits may be modified in part or in total, or revoked, either at the request of the permittee or of any interested person or upon the department’s initiative. However, permits may only be modified or revoked for the reasons specified in 40 CFR 270.41 or 40 CFR 270.43, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. All requests shall be in writing and shall contain facts and reasons supporting the request. 
B. If the department decides the request is not justified, a brief written response giving a reason for the decision shall be sent to the person requesting the permit modification and to the permittee. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1781 

Denial of a request for modification, in part or in total, or revocation of a permit is not subject to public notice, comment, or hearing, and is not appealable under section (2) of this rule. 
C. Tentative decision to modify. (I) If the department tentatively decides to modify a permit 
in part or in total, a draft permit incorporating the proposed changes will be prepared according to paragraph (1)(A)6. of this rule. The department may request additional information and, in the case of a partial permit modification, may require the submission of an updat- ed permit application. In the case of a total permit modification, the department will require the submission of a new permit application. 
(II) When a permit is partially modified under this para- graph, only the conditions being modified [shall be] are reopened. All other conditions of the original permit [shall] remain in effect for the duration of the [original] existing permit. When a permit is total- ly modified under this paragraph, the entire permit is reopened just as if the permit had expired and was being reissued. During any total modification, the permittee [shall comply] complies with all condi- tions of the [original] existing permit until a new, final permit is issued. 
(III) “Class 1 and class 2 permit modifications” as defined in 40 CFR 270.42, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270, are not sub- ject to the requirements of this paragraph. 
D. If the department tentatively decides to revoke a permit, the department will issue a notice of intent to revoke. A notice of intent to revoke is a type of draft permit and follows the same proce- dures as any draft permit decision prepared under paragraph (1)(A)6. of this rule. 
6. Draft permits. A. Once the technical review of a permit application is com- 
plete, the department shall tentatively decide whether to prepare a draft permit, or deny the permit application. 
B. If the department tentatively decides to deny the permit application, a notice of intent to deny shall be issued. A notice of intent to deny is a type of draft permit and follows the same proce- dures as any draft permit decision prepared under this paragraph. If the department’s final decision under paragraph (1)(A)15. of this rule is that the tentative decision to deny the permit application was incorrect, the department shall withdraw the notice of intent to deny and prepare a draft permit under this paragraph. 
C. If the department tentatively decides to prepare a draft permit, the department will prepare a draft permit that contains the following information: 
(I) All conditions under 40 CFR 270.30 and 270.32, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270; 
(II) All compliance schedules under 40 CFR 270.33, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270; 
(III) All monitoring requirements under 40 CFR 270.31, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270; and 
(IV) Standards for treatment, storage, and/or disposal and other permit conditions under 40 CFR 270.30, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. 
D. All draft permits prepared under this paragraph will be accompanied by a fact sheet per paragraph (1)(A)8. of this rule, pub- licly noticed per paragraph (1)(A)10. of this rule, and made available for public comment per paragraph (1)(A)11. of this rule. The depart- ment will give notice of opportunity for a public hearing per para- graph (1)(A)12. of this rule, issue a final decision per paragraph (1)(A)15. of this rule, and respond to comments per paragraph (1)(A)17. of this rule. An appeal may be filed under section (2) of this rule. 
E. Prior to making the draft permit available for public com- ment, the department shall deliver the draft permit to the applicant for review, as provided in section 640.016.2, RSMo. The applicant shall have ten (10) days to review the draft permit for nonsubstantive drafting errors. The department shall make the applicant’s changes to the draft permit within ten (10) days of receiving the applicant’s review and then submit the draft permit for public comment. The 
applicant may waive the opportunity to review the draft permit prior to public notice. 
7. Reserved. 8. Fact sheet. 
A. A fact sheet will be prepared for every draft permit. The fact sheet will briefly set forth the principal facts and the significant factual, legal, methodological, and policy questions considered in preparing the draft permit. The department will send this fact sheet to the applicant and to any person who requests a copy. 
B. The fact sheet shall include, when applicable: (I) A brief description of the type of facility or activity 
which is the subject of the draft permit; (II) The type and quantity of wastes, fluids, or pollutants 
which are proposed to be or are being treated, stored, disposed of, injected, emitted, or discharged; 
(III) A brief summary of the basis for the draft permit conditions including references to applicable statutory or regula- tory provisions. 
[(III)](IV) Reasons why any requested variances or alterna- tives to [required] applicable standards do or do not appear justi- fied; 
[(IV)](V) A description of the procedures for reaching a final decision on the draft permit including: 
(a) The beginning and ending dates of the public com- ment period under paragraph (1)(A)10. of this rule and the address where comments will be received; 
(b) Procedures for requesting a hearing and the nature of that hearing; and 
(c) Any other procedures by which the public may par- ticipate in the final decision; and 
[(V)](VI) Name and telephone number of a department contact for additional information. 
9. Reserved. 10. Public notice of permit actions and public comment period. 
A. Scope. (I) The department will give public notice that the follow- 
ing actions have occurred: (a) A notice of intent to deny a permit application has 
been prepared under subparagraph (1)(A)6.B. of this rule; (b) A draft permit has been prepared under subpara- 
graph (1)(A)6.C. of this rule; (c) A hearing has been scheduled under paragraph 
(1)(A)12. of this rule; or [(d) An appeal hearing has been scheduled under 
section (2) of this rule; or] [(e)](d) A notice of intent to revoke a permit has been 
prepared under subparagraph (1)(A)5.D. of this rule. (II) No public notice is required when a request for permit 
modification, in part or in total, or revocation is denied. A brief writ- ten response giving a reason for the decision will be sent to the requester and to the permittee. 
(III) Public notices may describe more than one (1) per- mit or permit action. 
B. Timing. (I) Public notice of the preparation of a draft permit 
(including a notice of intent to deny a permit application and a notice of intent to revoke a permit) [required] under subparagraph (1)(A)10.A. of this rule will allow at least forty-five (45) days for public comment. 
(II) Public notice of a public hearing will be given at least thirty (30) days before the hearing. Public notice of the hearing may be given at the same time as the public notice of the draft permit, and the two (2) notices may be combined. 
C. Methods. Public notice of activities described in part (1)(A)10.A.(I) of this rule will be given by the following methods: 
(I) By mailing a copy of a notice to the following persons (any person otherwise entitled to receive notice under this part may waive their rights to receive notice for any permit): 

Page 1782 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(a) The applicant; 
(b) Federal and state agencies with jurisdiction over fish, shellfish, and wildlife resources, natural resource management plans, and state historic preservation officers, including any affected states (Indian tribes); and 
(c) Persons on a mailing list maintained by the facility which is developed by— 
I. Including those who request to be on the list; 
II. Soliciting persons for “area lists” from participants in past permit proceedings in that area; 
III. Notifying the public of the opportunity to be put on the mailing list through periodic publication in the public press and in such publications as regional and state funded newsletters, environmental bulletins, or state law journals. The facility shall be responsible for maintaining and updating the mailing list. The department may require the facility to update the mailing list from time-to-time by requesting written indication of continued interest from those listed. The facility may remove from the list the name of any person who fails to respond to such a request; 
IV. Including all record owners of real property adja- cent to the current or proposed facility, in accordance with section 260.395.8, RSMo; 
V. Including, for a post-closure disposal facility, all record owners of real property which overlie any known plume of contamination originating from the facility; and 
VI. Including, for an operating disposal facility, all record owners of real property located within one (1) mile of the outer boundaries of the current or proposed facility, in accordance with section 260.395.8, RSMo; 
(d) A copy of the notice shall also be sent to the highest elected official of the county and the highest elected official of the city, town, or village having jurisdiction over the area where the facility is currently or proposed to be located, in accordance with section 260.395.8, RSMo, and each state agency having any author- ity under state law with respect to the construction or operation of such facility; and 
[(e) The department will mail a copy of the legal notice, fact sheet, and draft permit to the location where the permit application was placed for public review under sub- part (1)(B)2.B.(II)(d) of this rule; and] 
[(f)](e) A copy of the notice shall also be sent to any other department program or federal agency which the department knows has issued or is required to issue a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments (HSWA), Underground Injection Control (UIC), Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD), (or other permit issued under the Clean Air Act), National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), 404, or sludge management permit for the same facility or activity (including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency); 
(II) Other publication. (a) Publish a legal notice in a daily or weekly major 
local newspaper of general circulation and broadcast over local radio stations. 
(b) For any draft permit that includes active land dispos- al of hazardous waste, issue a news release to the media serving the area where the facility is currently or proposed to be located, in accordance with section 260.395.8, RSMo; [and] 
(III) Any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice of the activity to the persons potentially affected by it, includ- ing news releases or any other forum or medium to elicit public par- ticipation[.]; and 
(IV) The department will mail a copy of the legal notice, fact sheet, and draft permit to a location accessible to the public, in the vicinity of the facility, where the documents can be viewed and copied. 
D. Contents. All notices issued under this paragraph shall contain the following minimum information: 
(I) Name and address of the department; 
(II) Name and address of the permittee or applicant and, if different, of the facility or activity regulated by the permit; 
(III) A brief description of the business conducted at the facility or activity described in the permit application or the draft permit; 
(IV) Name, address, and telephone number of a depart- ment contact person from whom interested persons may obtain addi- tional information; 
(V) A brief description of the comment procedures, the date, time, and place of any hearing that will be held, a statement of procedures for requesting a hearing (unless a hearing has already been scheduled), and any other procedures by which the public may participate in the final permit decision; 
(VI) Any additional information considered necessary or proper by the department; 
(VII) The location where the information listed in subpart (1)(A)10.C.(I)(e) of this rule was placed for public review; and 
(VIII) In addition to the information listed above, the pub- lic notice of a public hearing under paragraph (1)(A)12. of this rule shall contain the following information: 
(a) Reference to the date of previous public notices relat- ing to the draft permit; 
(b) Date, time, and place of the hearing; and 
(c) A brief description of the nature and purpose of the hearing, including the applicable rules and procedures. 
E. In addition to the notice described in subparagraph (1)(A)10.D. of this rule, the department shall mail a copy of the per- mit application (if any), draft permit, and fact sheet to all persons identified in subparts (1)(A)10.C.(I)(a), (b), and (f) of this rule. 
11. Public comments and requests for public hearings. During the public comment period provided under paragraph (1)(A)10. of this rule, any interested person may submit written comments on the draft permit and may request a public hearing, if no hearing has already been scheduled. A request for a public hearing shall be in writing and [shall] state the nature of the issues to be raised in the hearing. All written comments and oral comments given at the pub- lic hearing, if one is held, [shall be] are considered by the depart- ment in making the final permit decision and [shall be] are answered as provided in paragraph (1)(A)17. of this rule. 
12. Public hearings. A. In accordance with section 260.395.8, RSMo, the depart- 
ment will hold a public hearing whenever a written request for a hearing is received within forty-five (45) days of the public notice under part (1)(A)10.B.(I) of this rule. In accordance with section 260.395.8, RSMo, [F]for any permit that includes active land dis- posal of hazardous waste, the department shall hold a public hearing after public notice, as [required] specified in paragraph (1)(A)10. of this rule, before issuing, modifying in total, or renewing the permit; and before any Class 3 or department-initiated permit modification related to the hazardous waste land disposal unit(s), including those necessary due to the department’s five- (5-) year review. 
B. The department may hold a public hearing at its own dis- cretion whenever there is significant public interest in a draft permit or when one (1) or more issues involved in the permit decision requires clarification. 
C. Whenever possible, the department will schedule a public hearing under this paragraph at a location convenient to the nearest population center to the current or proposed facility. 
D. Public notice of the public hearing will be given as spec- ified in paragraph (1)(A)10. of this rule. 
E. Any person may submit written comments or data con- cerning the draft permit. The department will accept oral comments during the public hearing. Reasonable limits may be set on the time allowed for oral comments. Any person who cannot present oral comments due to time limitations will be provided an opportunity to present written comments. The public comment period under para- graph (1)(A)10. of this rule will automatically be extended to the close of any public hearing if the public hearing is held later than 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1783 

forty-five (45) days after the start of the public comment period. F. A tape recording or written transcript of the public hearing 
shall be made available to the public. 13. Obligation to raise issues and provide information during 
the public comment period. All persons, including the applicant, who believes any condition of a draft permit is inappropriate or that the department’s tentative decision to deny a permit application, pre- pare a draft permit, or revoke a permit is inappropriate, shall raise all ascertainable issues and submit all relevant arguments supporting their position by the close of the public comment period under para- graph (1)(A)10. of this rule. Any supporting materials that are sub- mitted shall be included in full and may not be incorporated by ref- erence, unless the supporting materials are state or federal statutes and regulations, EPA documents of general applicability, or other generally available reference materials. 
14. Reserved. 15. Issuance and effective date of permit. 
A. For purposes of this paragraph, a final permit decision means the issuance, denial, Class 3 or department-initiated modifica- tion, total modification, or revocation of a permit. After the close of the public comment period under paragraph (1)(A)10. of this rule, the department will issue a final permit decision (or a decision to deny a permit for the active life of a hazardous waste management facility or unit under 40 CFR 270.29, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270). The department will notify the applicant and each person who submitted written comments, gave oral comments at the public hearing, or requested notice of the final permit decision. This notice will include reference to the procedures for appealing a final permit decision under section (2) of this rule. The department will mail a copy of the final permit decision to the location where the draft permit was placed for public review under subpart (1)(A)10.C.(II) of this rule. The department will also send a news release announcing the final permit decision to the media serving the area where the facility is currently or proposed to be located[, in accordance with section 260.395.8, RSMo]. 
B. A final permit issuance, denial, or modification decision (or a decision to deny a permit either in its entirety or as to the active life of a hazardous waste management facility or unit under 40 CFR 270.29, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270) will become effective on the date the decision is signed by the department. A final permit revocation decision will become effective thirty (30) days after the department signs the decision, unless no comments requested a change in the draft permit revocation decision, in which case the final permit revocation decision will become effective on the date the decision is signed by the department. 
16. Reserved. 17. Response to comments. 
A. At the same time that any final permit decision is issued under paragraph (1)(A)15. of this rule, the department will issue a response to comments. This response shall— 
(I) Specify which provisions, if any, of the draft permit have been changed in the final permit decision and the reasons for the change; and 
(II) Briefly describe and respond to all significant com- ments on the draft permit raised during the public comment period and public hearing, if one was held. 
B. The response to comments will be made available to the public. 
18. Reserved. 19. Reserved. 20. Computation of time. 
A. Any time period scheduled to begin on the occurrence of an act or event [shall] begins on the day after the act or event. 
B. Any time period scheduled to end before the occurrence of an act or event [shall] ends on the last working day before the act or event. 
C. If the last day of any time period falls on a weekend or legal holiday, the time period [shall be] is extended to the next work- 
ing day. D. Whenever a party or interested person has the right or is 
required to act within a specific time period after he or she receives notice by mail, three (3) days [shall be] is added to the time period to allow for mail delivery. 
(B) This subsection sets forth requirements that correspond to the requirements in 40 CFR part 124 subpart B. 
1. Applicable permit procedures. A. The requirements of this paragraph [shall] apply to all 
new permit applications and permit applications for renewal of per- mits where a significant change in facility operations is proposed. For purposes of this paragraph, a “significant change” is any change that would qualify as a class 3 permit modification under 40 CFR 270.42, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to class 1 or class 2 permit modifica- tions, as defined in 40 CFR 270.42, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25- 7.270, or permit applications submitted for the sole purpose of con- ducting post-closure activities or post-closure activities and correc- tive action at a facility. 
B. At least ninety (90) days prior to submitting a permit appli- cation [for a] to construct, substantially alter, or operate a haz- ardous waste disposal facility, the applicant shall submit to the department a letter of intent [to construct, substantially alter, or operate a hazardous waste disposal facility], in accordance with section 260.395.7, RSMo. The department will publish the let- ter within ten (10) days of receipt. The letter will be published as specified in section 493.050, RSMo. The letter will be published once a week for four (4) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation serving the county in which the facility is currently or proposed to be located. 
C. Prior to submitting a permit application for a facility, the applicant shall hold at least one (1) public meeting to solicit ques- tions from the community and inform the community of proposed hazardous waste management activities. The applicant shall post a sign-in sheet or otherwise provide an opportunity for attendees to voluntarily provide their names and addresses. 
D. The applicant shall submit a summary of the meeting, the list of attendees and their addresses developed under subparagraph (1)(B)1.C. of this rule, and copies of any written comments or mate- rials submitted at the meeting to the department as a part of the per- mit application, in accordance with 40 CFR 270.14(b), as incorpo- rated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. 
E. The applicant shall provide public notice of the pre-appli- cation meeting at least thirty (30) days prior to the meeting. The applicant shall maintain, and provide to the department as part of the permit application, documentation of the notice. 
(I) The applicant shall provide public notice in all of the following forms: 
(a) A newspaper advertisement. The applicant shall pub- lish a notice as a display advertisement in a newspaper of general cir- culation serving the county or equivalent jurisdiction where the cur- rent or proposed facility is located. In addition, the applicant shall publish the notice in newspapers of general circulation serving adja- cent counties or equivalent jurisdictions; 
(b) A visible and accessible sign. The applicant shall post a notice on a clearly marked sign at or near the facility. If the applicant places the sign on the facility property, the sign shall be large enough to be read from the nearest point where the public would pass by the site; 
(c) A broadcast media announcement. The applicant shall broadcast a notice as a paid advertisement at least once on at least one (1) local radio station or television station. The applicant may employ another medium with the prior written approval of the department; and 
(d) In addition to the department, the applicant shall send a copy of the newspaper advertisement to the units of state and local government described in subpart (1)(A)10.C.(I)(d) of this rule. 
(II) All notices [required] under this subparagraph shall 

Page 1784 
include: 
location unsuitable for the purposes and persons for which it was established, due to problems with the location, hours of availability, access, or other relevant considerations, the department will specify a more appropriate location. 
E. The department will specify requirements the applicant must meet for informing the public about the local information repos- itory. At a minimum, the department will require the applicant to provide a written notice about the information repository to all indi- viduals on the facility mailing list. 
F. The applicant shall be responsible for maintaining and updating the repository with appropriate information throughout the time period specified by the department. The department may close the repository at its discretion, based on the factors in subparagraph (1)(B)3.B. of this rule. 
(2) Appeal of Final Decision. (A) For purposes of this section, a final permit decision means the 
issuance, denial, partial or total modification, or revocation of a per- mit. The requirements of this section apply to final permit decisions, closure plan approvals, post-closure plan approvals, and any condi- tion of a final permit decision or approval. 
(B) The applicant or any aggrieved person may appeal to have the matter heard by the Administrative Hearing Commission. To initiate the appeal, the aggrieved party must follow the procedure established in 10 CSR 25-2.020 and sections 260.395.11 and 621.250, RSMo. Written petitions must be filed within thirty (30) days after the date the final permit decision or approval was mailed or the date it was delivered, whichever was earlier. If the written petition is sent by registered or certified mail, the petition will be deemed filed on the date it was mailed. If the written petition is sent by any other method, the petition will be deemed filed on the date it is received by the Administrative Hearing Commission. The written petition [shall set forth] describes the grounds for the appeal[. The appeal shall be] and the appeal is limited to issues raised during the public comment period and not resolved in the final permit decision or approval to the applicant’s or aggrieved person’s satisfaction. Issues included in the written petition outside those raised during the public comment peri- od [shall not be] are not considered; however, the Administrative Hearing Commission may consider an appeal of a condition in the final permit decision or approval that was not part of the draft permit or proposal and therefore could not have been commented on during the public comment period. 
(C) Any appeal under this section [shall be] is a contested case and [shall be] is conducted under section 260.400, RSMo. 
(D) Any party described in subsection (2)(G) of this rule may peti- tion the Administrative Hearing Commission for an interlocutory order staying the effectiveness of a final permit decision, a closure plan approval, a post-closure plan approval, or any condition of a final permit decision or approval which is subject to an appeal, until the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission enters its final order upon the appeal. At any time during the proceeding, the applicant may apply to the Administrative Hearing Commission for relief from a stay order previously issued. 
1. In determining whether to grant a stay or relief from a stay, the Administrative Hearing Commission will consider the likelihood that the petition will eventually succeed on the merits, the potential for harm to the applicant, business, industry, public health, or the environment if the requested stay or relief is or is not granted, and the potential magnitude of the harm. 
2. Any decision concerning a petition for a stay or relief from a stay [shall not be] is not considered a contested case or a final order and [shall be] is made by a majority of the sitting quorum of the Administrative Hearing Commission. 
3. The stay of any final permit decision pending appeal to the Administrative Hearing Commission [shall have] has the effect of continuing the effect and enforceability of any existing permit until the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission issues a final order upon the appeal, unless the stay is lifted sooner by the 
(a) contact person; (b) contact person 
The name and telephone number of the applicant’s 
The name and telephone number of the department 
(a) The date, time, and location of the meeting; (b) A brief description of the purpose of the meeting; (c) A brief description of the facility and proposed oper- 
ations, including the address or a map (e.g., a sketched or copied street map) of the current or proposed facility location; 
(d) A statement encouraging people to contact the facil- ity at least seventy-two (72) hours before the meeting if they need special access to participate in the meeting; and 
(e) The name, address, and telephone number of a con- tact person for the applicant. 
2. Public notice requirements at the permit application stage. A. Applicability. The requirements of this paragraph [shall] apply to all new permit applications for hazardous waste management units and permit applications for renewal of permits for such units under 40 CFR 270.51, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to permit modifications, as defined in 40 CFR 270.42, as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270, or permit applications submitted for the sole purpose of conducting post-closure activities or post-closure activities and corrective action 
at a facility. B. Notification at permit application submittal. 
(I) The department shall provide public notice as set forth in subpart (1)(A)10.C.(I)(c) of this rule, and notice to the appropriate units of state and local government as set forth in subpart (1)(A)10.C.(I)(d) of this rule, that a complete permit application has been submitted to the department and is available for review. 
(II) The notice will be published within a reasonable peri- od of time after the department determines that the permit applica- tion is complete. The notice must include: 
and a mailing address to which information and inquiries may be directed throughout the permitting process; 
(c) An address to which people can write in order to be put on the facility mailing list; 
(d) A location where copies of the permit application and any supporting documents can be viewed and copied; 
(e) A brief description of the facility and proposed oper- ations, including the address or a map (e.g., a sketched or copied street map) of the current or proposed facility location on the front page of the notice; and 
(f) The date that the permit application was submitted. C. Concurrent with the notice [required] under subparagraph (1)(B)2.B. of this rule, the department will place the permit applica- tion and any supporting documents in a location accessible to the public in the vicinity of the facility or at the department’s office as 
identified in the notice. 3. Information repository. 
A. Applicability. The requirements of this paragraph apply to all applicants seeking hazardous waste management facility permits. B. The department shall assess the need, on a case-by-case basis, for a local information repository. When assessing the need for a local information repository, the department will consider a variety of factors, including the level of public interest, the type of facility, and the presence of an existing repository. If the department deter- mines, at any time after submittal of a permit application, that there is a need for a local repository, then the department will notify the facility that it must establish and maintain a local information repos- 
itory. C. The information repository shall contain all documents, 
reports, data, and information deemed necessary by the department to fulfill the purposes for which the repository is established. The department will have the discretion to limit the contents of the repos- itory. 
D. The information repository shall be located and main- tained at a location chosen by the facility. If the department finds the 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1785 

Administrative Hearing Commission. During the appeal proceeding, the stay of any condition of a final permit decision pending appeal [shall] does not relieve the applicant of complying with all condi- tions of the final permit decision not stayed. 
4. No petition for a stay order or relief from a stay order shall be presented to the Administrative Hearing Commission on less than ten (10) days’ notice to all other parties to the proceeding. 
(E) A timely written petition of appeal stays the effectiveness of a final permit revocation decision. If a timely written petition of appeal is not filed, the final permit revocation becomes effective thirty (30) days after the department signs the decision. 
(F) [Public notice of the appeal hearing,] Any public notice of appeals, including the time, date, and place of the appeal hearing, [shall be given] will be given by the Administrative Hearing Commission in accordance with [part (1)(A)10.C.(II) of this rule. The department will mail a copy of the notice to all persons identified in subparts (1)(A)10.C.(I)(a) and (c) of this rule. After the Hazardous Waste Management Commission issues a final appeal decision, the department will notify the partic- ipants in the appeal hearing and each person who requested notice of the final appeal decision. The department will also send a news release announcing the final appeal decision to the media serving the area where the facility is currently or proposed to be located] 260.400, RSMo. 
(G) The participants in an appeal hearing shall be— 1. The department; 2. The applicant; 3. Any aggrieved person filing a timely written petition of 
appeal; and 4. Any person who files a timely application for intervention 
and is granted leave to intervene of right or permissive intervention. Any person desiring to intervene in an appeal shall file with the Administrative Hearing Commission, an application to intervene according to the procedures of Rule 52.12, Supreme Court Rules of Civil Procedure. 
A. The application to intervene shall state the interests of the intervener, the grounds upon which intervention is sought, and a statement of the position which the intervener desires to take in the proceeding. The intervener shall serve a copy of the application to intervene on each of the parties to the proceeding as determined under part (1)(A)10.C.(II) of this rule. 
B. The Administrative Hearing Commission or duly appoint- ed hearing officer will grant or deny the application to intervene pur- suant to Rule 52.12, Supreme Court Rules of Civil Procedure. The Administrative Hearing Commission or hearing officer may condi- tion any grant of intervention as the circumstances may warrant. 
(H) A tape recording or written transcript of the appeal hearing shall be made available to the public. 
(3) Transporter License. (A) Issuance or Denial of a Transporter License. 
1. Upon receipt of a complete application for a transporter license, the department will determine whether the application con- forms to the requirements of sections 260.385 and 260.395, RSMo, and 10 CSR 25-6. The department will notify the applicant of its decision to issue, with or without conditions, or denying the license. If the license is denied, the department will specify the reasons for the denial. No license will be issued until the fees [required by] specified in section 260.395.1, RSMo, have been paid. 
2. The procedure for appealing a license issuance, denial, or any condition of a license [shall be] is the same as the procedure for appealing a final permit decision under section (2) of this rule. 
(B) Revocation of a Transporter License. 1. Transporter licenses may be revoked for the reasons specified 
in sections 260.379.2, 260.395.3, 260.410.3, and 260.410.4, RSMo, or for failure to comply with sections 260.395.1(2) and 260.395.1(3), RSMo. 
2. The department may initiate proceedings to revoke a trans- 
porter license. If the department proposes to revoke a transporter license, it will send a notice of intent to revoke by certified mail to the licensee, specifying the provisions of sections 260.350–260.434, RSMo, 10 CSR 25-6, the conditions of the license or the provisions of an order issued to the licensee that the licensee has violated, the manner in which the licensee misrepresented or failed to fully dis- close relevant facts, or the manner in which the activities of the licensee endanger human health or the environment or are creating a public nuisance. 
3. The procedure for appealing a license revocation [shall be] is the same as the procedure for appealing a permit revocation under section (2) of this rule. A timely written petition for appeal stays the effectiveness of a license revocation. If a timely written petition for appeal is not filed, the revocation [shall become] is effective thirty (30) days after the department signs the revocation decision. 
[(4) Resource Recovery Facility Certifications. (A) Issuance of Resource Recovery Facility Certifications. 
Upon receipt of a complete application for resource recovery facility certification, the department will determine whether the application conforms to the requirements of section 260.395.13, RSMo, and 10 CSR 25-9.020. The department will notify the applicant of its decision to issue, with or with- out conditions, or deny the certification. If the certification is denied, the department will specify the reasons for the denial. The procedure for appealing a certification issuance, denial, or any condition of a certification will be the same as the procedure for appealing a final permit decision under section (2) of this rule. 
(B) Modification of Resource Recovery Facility Certifications. 
1. The department may modify a resource recovery facility certification under any of the following circum- stances: 
A. When required to prevent violations of the require- ments of section 260.395.14, RSMo, or 10 CSR 25-9.020; B. When relevant facts have been misrepresented or 
not fully disclosed; C. When required to protect the health of humans or 
the environment or to prevent or abate a public nuisance; D. When the facility proposes changing any waste 
stream(s) managed by the facility; or E. When the facility proposes changing any processes 
or equipment utilized for resource recovery operations at the facility. 
2. If the department proposes to modify the resource recovery facility certification, it will send a notice of intent to modify by certified mail to the certificate holder, specify- ing the reasons for the proposed modification and the man- ner in which the certificate is proposed to be modified. 
3. The facility may appeal any certification modifica- tions, except those requested by the facility that were approved as proposed without further modification. The pro- cedure for appealing a certification modification shall be the same as the procedure for appealing a final permit decision under section (2) of this rule. 
(C) Revocation of Resource Recovery Facility Certifications. 
1. The department may initiate proceedings to revoke a resource recovery facility certification. If the department decides to revoke a resource recovery facility certification, it will send a final revocation by certified mail to the certificate holder, specifying the provisions of section 260.395.14, RSMo, 10 CSR 25-9.020, or an order issued to the certifi- cate holder that have been violated, the manner in which the certificate holder misrepresented or failed to fully disclose relevant facts, or the manner in which the activities at the facility endanger human health or the environment or are 

Page 1786 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
creating a public nuisance. 2. Resource recovery facility certifications may be 
revoked for the reasons specified in paragraph (4)(B)1. of this rule. 
3. The procedure for appealing a certification revocation shall be the same as the procedure for appealing a permit revocation under section (2) of this rule. A timely written petition for appeal stays the effectiveness of a certification revocation. If a timely written petition for appeal is not filed, the revocation shall become effective thirty (30) days after the department signs the revocation decision.] 
[(5)](4) Variances. (A) Applicability. According to section 260.405.1, RSMo, unless 
prohibited by any federal hazardous waste management act, the Hazardous Waste Management Commission may grant individual variances from the requirements of sections 260.350 to 260.430, RSMo, whenever it is found, upon presentation of adequate proof, that compliance will result in an arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property or in the practical closing and elimination of any lawful business, occupation, or activity, in either case without sufficient corresponding benefit or advantage to the people. The commission will not consider any petition for variance that would permit the occurrence or continuance of a condition that unreasonably poses a present or potential threat to the health of humans or other living organisms. The department may require any petitioner for a variance to submit mailing lists and mailing labels [required] to accomplish the public notice requirements of this section. 
(B) Evaluation. Upon receipt of any petition for a variance, the department will evaluate the petition to determine whether the request is substantive or non-substantive based upon the effect of the proposed variance on facility operations, types of waste, type and volume of hazardous waste management units, location of facility, public interest, and compliance history. Variances from generator or transporter requirements will be deemed non-substantive provided all conditions of subsection (3)(A) of this rule are met. 
(C) Substantive Variance. If a variance petition is deemed substan- tive, the department will— 
1. Upon receipt— A. Mail a notice to all record owners of real property located 
within one (1) mile of the outer boundaries of the facility, the highest elected official of the county, and the highest elected official of the city, town, or village having jurisdiction over the area where the facility is located; and 
B. Issue a news release to the media and publish a legal notice in a newspaper of general circulation serving the area where the facil- ity is located; 
2. Within sixty (60) days of receipt— A. Prepare a recommendation as to whether the variance 
should be granted, granted with conditions, or denied; B. Submit the recommendation to the Missouri Hazardous 
Waste Management Commission; C. Notify the petitioner of the recommendation; D. Publish a legal notice regarding the recommendation in a 
newspaper of general circulation serving the area where the facility is located; and 
E. Mail a notice regarding the recommendation to all record owners of real property adjacent to the facility, the highest elected official of the county, and the highest elected official of the city, town, or village having jurisdiction over the area where the facility is located; and 
3. Request a formal hearing before the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission or a duly appointed hearing officer on the variance petition and the department’s recommendation, as provided in section 260.400, RSMo. 
(D) Non-Substantive Variance. If a variance petition is deemed non-substantive, the department will comply with paragraph (5)(C)2. of this rule. The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management 
Commission will hold a formal hearing as provided in section 260.400, RSMo, if requested by the petitioner. A request for a for- mal hearing may also be made by any aggrieved person if the depart- ment’s recommendation is to grant the variance with or without con- ditions. Any request by the petitioner or aggrieved person for a for- mal hearing shall be made in writing within thirty (30) days of the date the legal notice regarding the recommendation is published. 
(E) Final Decision. If no formal hearing is requested, the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission shall make a decision on the variance at a public meeting held no earlier than thirty (30) days from the date the legal notice regarding the recommendation was published. 
(F) Hearing Procedures. Any hearings under this section [shall be] are a contested case pursuant to section 260.400 and Chapter 536, RSMo. The participants [shall be] are the department, the petitioner, any aggrieved person who requests a formal hearing, and any person who files a timely application for intervention and is granted leave to intervene. Any person desiring to intervene shall file an application to intervene with the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission secretary within thirty (30) days from the date the legal notice regarding the recommendation is published. 
1. The application to intervene shall state the interests of the intervener, the grounds upon which intervention is sought, and a statement of the position that the intervener desires to take in the pro- ceeding. The intervener shall serve a copy of the application to inter- vene on each of the parties listed in subsection (5)(F) of this rule. 
2. The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission or duly appointed hearing officer will grant or deny the application to intervene pursuant to Rule 52.12, Supreme Court Rules of Civil Procedure. The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission or hearing officer may condition any grant of interven- tion as the circumstances may warrant. 
(G) If the applicant fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the variance as specified by the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission, the variance may be revoked or modified by the commission after a formal hearing held after no less than thir- ty (30) days’ written notice. The department will notify all persons who will be subjected to greater restrictions if the variance is revoked or modified and each person who requested notice from the depart- ment. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, [RSMo Supp. 2013, and sec- tions] 260.400, 260.405, and 260.437, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed June 1, 1998, effective Jan. 30, 1999. For inter- vening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1787 

be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 9—Resource Recovery 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
10 CSR 25-9.020 Hazardous Waste Resource Recovery Processes. This rule established a system of issuing certificates to individuals or facilities engaged in the recovery or recycling of hazardous waste. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because entities subject to its requirements have alternative requirements in place that allow them to engage in the same activity without needing to obtain a cer- tificate from the department. The alternative requirements are con- tained in a federal rule that will be proposed for adoption in Missouri. These conditions established in the federal rule will ensure that recycling and handling of this material is done in a safe and pro- tective manner, while the burdens of the existing rule and resource recovery certification process are not producing a corresponding environmental benefit. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 260.373, and 260.395, RSMo Supp. 2013, and section 260.437, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Feb. 16, 1990, effective Dec. 31, 1990. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 12, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will cost state agencies or political subdivisions eighty-two thousand five hundred sixty-one dol- lars ($82,561) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Page 1788 Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 

 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1789 
  

Page 1790 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 10—Abandoned or Uncontrolled Hazardous Waste Disposal Sites 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
10 CSR 25-10.010 Abandoned or Uncontrolled Hazardous Waste Disposal Sites. This rule implements a statute that establishes the Missouri Registry of Abandoned or Uncontrolled Hazardous Waste Disposal Sites. 
PURPOSE: The rule is proposed for rescission because a review of the rule as part of the department’s Red Tape Reduction initiative revealed that much of the rule merely restates language that is already in the statute itself. The few elements of the rule not found in the statute are no longer necessary. Because of the duplicative lan- guage and the fact that some of the information is outdated, the bur- dens of implementing the requirements written in the existing rule are not producing a corresponding environmental benefit. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 260.437, 260.440, 260.445 and 260.455, RSMo Supp. 2000. Original rule filed Aug. 14, 1984, effec- tive March 1, 1985. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 12, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 11—Used Oil 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 10 CSR 25-11.279 Recycled Used Oil Management Standards. 
The commission proposes to amend sections (1), (2), and (3) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- 
ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) The regulations set forth in 40 CFR parts 110.1, 112, and 279, July 1, 2013, as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, are incorporated by refer- ence. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. Except as provided otherwise in this rule, the substitution of terms set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) [shall apply] applies in this rule in addition to any other modifications set forth in section (2) of this rule. [Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent shall control.] 
(2) This section sets forth specific modification to 40 CFR part 279, incorporated by reference in section (1) of this rule. A person man- aging used oil shall comply with this section in addition to the regu- lations in 40 CFR part 279. In the case of contradictory or conflict- ing requirements, the more stringent [shall] rules control. (Comment: This section has been organized so that Missouri addi- tions, changes, or deletions to a particular lettered subpart in 40 CFR part 279 are noted in the corresponding lettered subsection of this section. For example, changes to 40 CFR part 279 subpart A are found in subsection (2)(A) of this rule.) 
(D) Standards for Used Oil Collection Centers and Aggregation Points. This subsection sets forth requirements which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 279 subpart D. 
1. Do-it-yourselfer used oil collection centers, used oil collec- tion centers, and used oil aggregation points owned by the generator may accept used oil from farmers not regulated under 40 CFR part 279 subpart C. 
2. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR part 279 subpart D, do-it-yourselfer used oil collection centers, used oil aggregation points, and used oil collection centers shall notify the solid waste dis- trict in which they operate or the department’s Hazardous Waste Program of their used oil collection activities. 
A. Notification shall be by letter and [shall] include the fol- lowing: 
(I) The name and location of the collection center; (II) The name and telephone number of the owner or oper- 
ator; 
(III) The name and telephone number of the facility con- tact, if different from the owner or operator; 
(IV) The type of collection center; and 
(V) The dates and hours of operation. B. The notification submitted by a used oil collection center 
will satisfy the requirement of 40 CFR 279.31(b)(2) that the used oil collection center be recognized by the state. 
C. Do-it-yourselfer used oil collection centers, used oil col- lection centers, and used oil aggregation points shall notify the solid waste district in which they operate or the department’s Hazardous Waste Program when their used oil collection activities cease. 
D. The notifications to operate or cease to operate received by a solid waste district shall be transmitted to the department’s Hazardous Waste Program for public information purposes or be incorporated in the information submitted to the department as part of their regular reporting requirements. 
3. No quantity of used oil collected by do-it-yourselfer oil col- lection centers, used oil collection centers, and used oil aggregation points shall be stored for more than twelve (12) months at the collec- tion center or aggregation point. 
4. Do-it-yourselfer used oil collection centers, used oil collec- tion centers, and used oil aggregation points shall keep all tanks and containers that are exposed to rainfall closed at all times except when adding or removing used oil. 
5. Used oil collection centers, do-it-yourselfer used oil collec- tion centers, and used oil aggregation points shall have a means of 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1791 

controlling public access to the used oil storage area. A. Access control may be an artificial or natural barrier which completely surrounds the storage area or access control may 
be achieved by storing the used oil inside a locked building. B. An attendant shall be present when the public has access to the do-it-yourselfer used oil collection center, used oil collection center, and used oil aggregation point. No public access shall be allowed to the stored used oil when the collection center or aggrega- 
tion point is unattended. (E) Standards for Used Oil Transporters and Transfer Facilities. 
This subsection sets forth requirements which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 279 subpart E. 
1. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 279.42, trans- porters of used oil shall be licensed in accordance with the require- ments in 10 CSR 25-6.263. 
2. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 279.45(d)–(f), incorporated by reference in this rule, secondary containment sys- tems shall have a capacity equal to or greater than ten percent (10%) of the containerized waste volume, or the volume of the largest con- tainer, whichever is greater. (Note: Facilities that store used oil in tanks near navigable waters may be subject to the spill prevention, control, and counter-measures standards found in 40 CFR 112.) 
3. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 279.46, incorpo- rated by reference in this rule, the following shall apply: 
A. [The information described in 40 CFR 279.46(a)– (c), incorporated by reference in this rule, shall be recorded on form MO 780-1449(11-93), the Transporter’s Used Oil Shipment Record, incorporated by reference in this rule and provided by the department; and] (Reserved) 
B. All transporters who transport one thousand (1,000) gal- lons or more used oil in a reporting period must submit the informa- tion described in 40 CFR 279.46(a) and (b) to the director of the department’s Hazardous Waste Program annually, on form MO 780- 1555, the Transporter’s Annual Report Form, incorporated by refer- ence in this rule and provided by the department. The form shall include information for a reporting period from July 1 to June 30, and [shall] be submitted by August 31 following the reporting peri- od. 
4. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 279.46 incorpo- rated in this rule, transporters of used oil operating a transfer facility shall maintain an inventory log to assure the off-site shipment of used oil within thirty-five (35) days. 
5. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 279.46(d), incor- porated in this rule, the inventory log described in paragraph (2)(E)4. of this rule shall be maintained for at least three (3) years, or longer if [required] requested by the department. 
6. In addition to the requirement of 40 CFR 279.47, used oil transporters who operate a transfer facility shall close the transfer facility in accordance with 10 CSR 25-6.263(2)(A)10.G. 
7. Used oil transfer facilities shall keep all tanks and containers that are exposed to rainfall closed at all times except when adding or removing used oil. 
8. For shipments involving rail transportation, the initial rail transporter shall forward copies of the shipping record to— 
A. The next nonrail transporter, if any; 
B. The receiving facility if the shipment is delivered by rail; or 
C. The last rail transporter handling the used oil in the United States. 
(F) Standards for Used Oil Processors and Re-Refiners. This sub- section sets forth requirements which modify or add to those [required by] in 40 CFR part 279 subpart F. 
1. In 40 CFR 279.52(b)(6)(iv)(B), incorporated in this rule, the government official described as the on-scene coordinator shall be either the department’s emergency response coordinator or the EPA Region VII emergency planning and response branch. 
2. In addition to the requirements at 40 CFR 279.54(c) and (d), secondary containment systems shall have a capacity equal to or 
greater than ten percent (10%) of the containerized waste volume or the volume of the largest container, whichever is greater. (Note: Facilities that store used oil in tanks near navigable waters may be subject to the spill prevention, control, and counter-measures stan- dards found in 40 CFR 112.) 
3. In 40 CFR 279.54(g), incorporated by reference in this rule, delete “the effective date of the authorized used oil program for the State in which the release is located,” and insert in its place “the original effective date of 10 CSR 25-11.279.” 
4. In 40 CFR 279.52(b)(6)(viii)(C), incorporated in this rule, the state authority to be notified is the director of the department’s Hazardous Waste Program. 
5. Used oil processors and re-refiners shall keep all tanks and containers that are exposed to rainfall closed at all times except when adding or removing used oil. 
(G) Standards for Used Oil Burners Who Burn Off-Specification Used Oil for Energy Recovery. This subsection sets forth require- ments which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 279 subpart G. 
1. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 279.64(c)–(e), secondary containment systems shall have a capacity equal to or greater than ten percent (10%) of the containerized waste volume or the volume of the largest container, whichever is greater. (Note: Facilities that store used oil in tanks near navigable waters may be subject to the spill prevention, control, and counter-measures stan- dards found in 40 CFR 112.) 
2. In 40 CFR 279.64(g), incorporated in this rule, delete “the effective date of the authorized used oil program for the State in which the release is located,” and insert in its place “the original effective date of 10 CSR 25-11.279.” 
3. Used oil burners shall provide the transporter who delivers each shipment of used oil with the information [required] specified in 40 CFR 279.65, incorporated in this rule, and [shall] retain for three (3) years a copy of the completed form MO 780-1449(4-94), the Transporter’s Used Oil Shipment Record for each shipment received. The period of record retention shall extend automatically during the course of any pending enforcement action, or upon the director’s request. The records shall be available to authorized rep- resentatives of the department for inspection and copying during reg- ular business hours. 
4. Used oil burners shall keep all tanks and containers that are exposed to rainfall closed at all times except when adding or remov- ing used oil. 
(H) Standards for Used Oil Fuel Marketers. This subsection sets forth requirements which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 279 subpart H. 
1. Used oil marketers subject to 40 CFR 279.74, incorporated in this rule, shall provide the transporter who delivers each shipment of used oil with the information [required] specified in 40 CFR 279.74 and [shall] retain for three (3) years a copy of the completed form MO 780-1449(4-94), the Transporter’s Used Oil Shipment Record for each shipment received. The period of record retention shall extend automatically during the course of any pending enforce- ment action, or upon the director’s request. The records shall be available to authorized representatives of the department for inspec- tion and copying during regular business hours. 
(I) Standards for Use as a Dust Suppressant and Disposal of Used Oil. This subsection sets forth requirements which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 279 subpart I. 
1. 40 CFR 279.81 is not incorporated in this rule. Instead of the requirements in 40 CFR 279.81, the following shall apply: 
A. [Used] Manage used oil that cannot be or is not intended to be recycled [in accordance with this rule shall be managed] in accordance with 10 CSR 25-5, 6, 7, 9, and 13, and release of even non-hazardous used oil into the environment is prohibited. 
2. The use of used oil as a dust suppressant on a road, parking lot, driveway, or other similar surface is prohibited. 
3. 40 CFR 279.82 is not incorporated in this rule. 

Page 1792 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(3) Requirements for Low Concentration Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB) Used Oil. 
[(C) Low concentration PCB used oil that cannot be or is not intended to be recycled in accordance with this rule shall be assigned Missouri waste code number D096. The gener- ator shall record this waste code as any shipment record or manifest that accompanies a consignment of low concentra- tion PCB used oil that is destined for disposal.] 
[(D)](C) A generator, transporter, or owner/operator of a haz- ardous waste management facility, certified resource recovery facili- ty, or PCB facility that manages low concentration PCB used oil may be required to verify by analysis or investigation, or both, that the used oil is not PCB material as defined in 10 CSR 25-13.010. 
[(E)](D) No person shall dispose of oily waste resulting from a spill or leak of low concentration PCB used oil in a solid waste land- fill if the oily waste contains equal to or greater than one (1) pound of PCBs. 
AUTHORITY: section 260.370, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Original rule filed Jan. 5, 1994, effective Aug. 28, 1994. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 12—Hazardous Waste Fees and Taxes 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 10 CSR 25-12.010 Fees and Taxes. The commission proposes to 
amend sections (1), (2), and (3) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) Hazardous Waste Fees Applicable to Generators of Hazardous Waste. The fees in this section apply notwithstanding any conflicting language in any other rule regarding the amount of any of the fees listed in this section. 
(A) In-State Waste Fee. A generator of hazardous waste shall pay the In-State Waste Fee annually in accordance with this subsection. 
1. The fee shall be paid annually on or before January 1 of each year. 
2. The fee shall be based on the waste reported to the depart- ment for the twelve- (12-) month period ending June 30 of the previ- ous year. 
3. For the purpose of calculating this fee, any portion of a ton shall be assessed as though it were a whole ton. 
4. [Beginning with the reporting year covering July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017, t]The first ton of waste generated each year shall be assessed a fee of two hundred dollars ($200). [For all reporting years prior to the July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017 reporting year, the minimum fee shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150).] 
5. [Beginning with the reporting year covering July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017, e]Each additional ton of waste shall be assessed a fee of six dollars and ten cents ($6.10). [For all reporting years prior to the July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017 reporting year, the rate shall be five dollars ($5) per ton.] 
6. [Beginning with the reporting year covering July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017, n]No generator site may be assessed a fee in excess of fifty-seven thousand dollars ($57,000) for any given year. [For all reporting years prior to the July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017 reporting year, no generator site may be assessed a fee in excess of fifty-two thousand dollars ($52,000) for any given year.] 
7. Failure to pay this fee in full by the due date shall result in the imposition of a late fee equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the total original fee. 
EXAMPLES OF IN-STATE WASTE FEE CALCULATION (These examples are for the rates that go into effect beginning with the July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017 reporting year.) 
Example 1. ABC Company reports 0.4 tons of hazardous waste. The number of tons would be rounded to 1 ton. 
The fee would be $200 because the fee on the 1st ton of waste is $200. 
Example 2. ABC Company reports 25 tons of hazardous waste. $6.10 × 24 tons +$200 for 1st ton= $346.40 fee Example 3. ABC Company reports 11,001 tons of hazardous waste. $6.10 × 11,000 tons +$200 for 1st ton= $67,300 fee 
The fee would be $57,000, because that is the maximum annual fee. 
8. No fee will be assessed on [H]hazardous waste that is dis- charged by a generator to a municipal wastewater treatment plant, which is regulated by a permit issued by the Missouri Clean Water Commission[, shall be assessed a fee of zero cents per ton (0¢/ton) of hazardous waste so managed]. 
(B) Land Disposal Fee. A generator [required to register] sub- ject to registration in accordance with 10 CSR 25-5.262 shall pay a land disposal fee in accordance with this subsection. [Beginning with the reporting year covering July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017, t]The fee shall be paid annually, on or before January 1 of each year, at the rate of twenty-nine dollars and fifty cents ($29.50) per ton or portion thereof for the hazardous waste reported to the department for the twelve- (12-) month period ending June 30 of the 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1793 

previous year, having been discharged, deposited, dumped, or placed into or on the soil as a final action. For all reporting years prior to the July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017 reporting year, the rate shall be twenty-five dollars ($25) per ton. [This fee shall not be] No fee will be assessed on generators who land dispose less than ten (10) tons of hazardous waste. 
1. Failure to pay this fee in full by the due date shall result in a fifteen percent (15%) late fee being assessed on the amount owed. 
2. When this fee is paid after the prescribed due date, interest shall be assessed on the period from the fee’s due date to the date the fee is paid in full at an annual rate of ten percent (10%). 
EXAMPLES OF LAND DISPOSAL FEE CALCULATION (These examples are for the rates that go into effect beginning with the July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017 reporting year.) 
Example 1. ABC Company reports land disposing 9.8 tons of haz- ardous waste. The fee would not be assessed since less than 10 tons of waste was land disposed. 
Example 2. ABC Company reports land disposing exactly 10 tons of hazardous waste. 
$29.50 x 10 tons = $295 fee 
Example 3. ABC Company reports land disposing 124.3 tons of haz- ardous waste. The number of tons would be rounded to 125. 
$29.50 x 125 tons = $3,687.50 fee 
(C) [A generator required to register in accordance with 10 CSR 25-5.262 shall pay a landfill tax of two percent (2%) of the gross charges and fees charged for disposal, which is collected by the landfill owner/operator when depositing waste at a hazardous waste landfill.] (Reserved) 
(E) Registration Fee. A generator [required to register] subject to registration in accordance with 10 CSR 25-5.262 shall pay the following registration fees: 
1. [Prior to October 1, 2016, all new generator registra- tion and registration renewal fees will be one hundred dollars ($100). Beginning October 1, 2016, all new generator regis- tration and registration renewal fees that will cover calendar year 2017 and beyond will be assessed at the new rates established in this subsection. The amount of the registra- tion fee] All new generator registration and renewal fees will be based upon the generator status of the generator. The fee schedule is as follows: 
A. A generator registering as a Large Quantity Generator shall pay a registration fee of five hundred dollars ($500); 
B. A generator registering as a Small Quantity Generator shall pay a registration fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150); and 
C. A generator registering as a Conditionally Exempt Small Quantity Generator shall pay a registration fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150); 
2. A registration fee will be paid with the submittal of the reg- istration form required by 10 CSR 25-5.262 when one (1) of the fol- lowing is true: 
A. The generator is applying for a new ID number (initial registration); 
B. The generator is reactivating an existing ID number that had been inactivated; 
C. There has been a change in the ownership of the generator (initial registration for the new company); and 
D. A SQG or CESQG who changes their generator status to LQG and has already paid the one hundred fifty dollar ($150) regis- tration fee for the year as required by this subsection shall pay three hundred fifty dollars ($350) with the submittal of the required regis- tration form; 
3. The following constitutes the procedure for registration renewal: 
A. The amount of the registration renewal fee is also based upon the generator status of the generator at the time the invoice is generated and uses the same schedule as the registration fee; 
B. The calendar year shall constitute the annual registration period; 
C. Annual registration renewal billings will be sent by December 1 of each year to all generators holding an active registra- tion; 
D. Any generator initially registering between October 1 and December 31 of any given year shall pay the initial registration fee, but [shall] not [pay] the annual renewal fee for the calendar year immediately following their initial registration. From that year for- ward, they shall pay the annual renewal fee[. For any generator registering between October 1, 2016 and December 31, 2016, the initial registration fee will be assessed at the new rates established in this subsection for the calendar year that begins on January 1, 2017]; 
E. Any generator [required to register] subject to registra- tion who fails to pay the annual renewal fee by the due date specified on the billing shall be administratively inactivated and subject to enforcement action for failure to properly maintain their registration; 
F. Generators administratively inactivated for failure to pay the renewal fee in a timely manner, who later in the same registration year pay the annual renewal fee, shall pay a fifteen percent (15%) late fee in addition to the [required] annual renewal fee for each applicable registration year and shall file an updated generator regis- tration form with the department before their registration is reactivat- ed by the department; 
G. Generators who request that their registration be made inactive rather than pay the renewal fee, who later in that same renewal year pay the annual renewal fee to reactivate their registra- tion, shall pay a fifteen percent (15%) late fee in addition to the [required] annual renewal fee and file an updated generator registra- tion form with the department before their registration is reactivated by the department; and 
H. The department will immediately revoke the registra- tion of [A]any person who pays the annual renewal fee with what is found to be an insufficient check [shall have the registration immediately revoked]; and 
4. Large quantity generator registration renewal petition process. A generator may petition to have a single large quantity gen- erator registration renewal fee cover multiple generator sites with dif- ferent ID numbers as long as at least one (1) generator site is a large quantity generator and the generator can demonstrate to the satisfac- tion of the department that each of the following conditions has been met: 
A. All of the generator sites are owned or leased by the same person and all are under control of the same person; 
B. The generator provides a single point of contact for all generator sites within the group; 
C. Each generator site is adjacent to a property that also shares a border with at least one (1) other generator site in the group, or all generator sites are accessible by a common roadway, or all gen- erator sites are within the recognized boundaries of an industrial park, warehouse district, research campus, or academic campus, provided that all generator sites are in close proximity to one another and can be inspected as a single facility; 
D. The generator submits a map that shows the location of each generator site covered by the single registration fee; 
E. All of the generator sites share a single contingency plan, a single repository for required records, and a unified training plan that covers all of the large quantity and small quantity generator sites; and 
F. The generator must submit an updated petition and map any time a generator site is added to or removed from the group and each generator site must have an existing ID number before it can be 

Page 1794 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
added to the group. (F) Out-of-State Waste Fee. All owners/operators of Missouri 
treatment, storage, or disposal facilities shall pay annually, on or before January 1 of each year, a fee to the department of two dollars ($2) per ton or portion thereof for all hazardous waste received from outside the state. This fee shall be based on the hazardous waste received for the twelve- (12-) month period ending June 30 of the previous year. This fee shall not be paid on hazardous waste received directly from other permitted treatment, storage, and disposal facili- ties located in Missouri. Failure to pay this fee in full by the due date shall result in imposition of a late fee equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the total original fee. 
EXAMPLES OF OUT-OF-STATE WASTE FEE CALCULATION 
Example 1. ABC Company reports receiving 250 tons of hazardous waste from outside of Missouri. 
$2 x 250 tons = $500 fee 
Example 2. ABC Company reports receiving 410.6 tons of hazardous waste from outside of Missouri. The number of tons would be round- ed to 411. 
$2 x 411 tons = $822 fee 
Example 3. ABC Company reports receiving 52,149.3 tons of haz- ardous waste from outside of Missouri. The number of tons would be rounded to 52,150. 
$2 x 52,150 tons = $104,300 fee 
(2) Fees and Taxes Applicable to Transporters of Hazardous Waste. (A) A transporter [required to register] subject to registration as a generator under 10 CSR 25-6.263 and, in accordance with 10 CSR 25-5.262, shall pay fees and taxes [required under] specified 
in section (1) of this rule. (C) A hazardous waste transporter as defined at 10 CSR 25-3.260, 
except those exempted in subsection (E) of this section, requesting a hazardous waste transporter license in accordance with 10 CSR 25- 6.263 shall submit to the department along with their license appli- cation the following fees: 
1. An annual application fee of two hundred dollars ($200); and 
2. A use-based fee, calculated by adding the total licensed vehi- cle weight (LVW) of power units, and multiplying by the percentage of Missouri International Registration Plan (IRP) mileage (MOIRP) by the percent hazardous waste (HW) times a use rate of .0425. The formula is: LVW × %MOIRP × %HW × .0425 = Use Fee. Fee calculations shall be submitted on forms furnished by the department in its application packet. Transporters shall base all calculations on the period of twelve (12) consecutive months immediately prior to July 1 immediately preceding the date of the license application. This time frame is known as the “previous year.” 
A. For those power units which utilize the International Registration Plan (IRP) or 12 CSR 20-3.010 for apportioned regis- tration, the transporter shall use the reported Missouri IRP mileage for the previous year. 
B. For those power units not required to track IRP miles, the transporter shall calculate MOIRP mileage by dividing the Missouri mileage of their power units by total mileage for the previous year. 
C. The percentage of hazardous waste will be the number of hazardous waste, used oil, or infectious waste truckloads from, to, or through Missouri, divided by the total truckloads from, to, or through Missouri, in the form of a percentage, for the previous year. 
D. New transporters who wish to obtain a hazardous waste license and have no “previous year” history of hauling hazardous waste, shall calculate license fees based on estimates of MOIRP mileage and percent hazardous waste. 
(I) If an estimate is used to calculate the license fee, the transporter shall, within sixty (60) days of the expiration of the 
license, report the actual Missouri mileage and percent hazardous waste for the current license year. The renewal fee will include the license fee for the next year, plus any money owed the department due to an underestimation of the current year, plus ten percent (10%). 
(II) [The department shall not issue] No refunds will be issued by the department, but the department will issue credit for license fees in excess of ten percent (10%) (overestimation) for the next license year. 
E. A transporter who wishes to add another power unit other than when applying for the annual license shall submit, along with power unit descriptions, a fee computed from this formula: LVW of power unit × %MOIRP × %HW × .0425 = Use Fee. Divide this figure by twelve (12), then multiply by the number of months remaining in the license year to derive the fee. 
F. To replace one (1) power unit for another (due to accident, sale, or extended maintenance) submit all the required information for the replacement and a license certificate will be issued for that power unit for a limited period. 
G. A temporary permit can be issued for thirty (30)[-] days for a fee of fifty dollars ($50) for a power unit that is, for example, a temporary lease that is added to the fleet. 
3. The total fee shall not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per transporter per year. 
(E) Other than power unit transporters are not subject to the requirements of subsections (C) and (D) of this section. The license fee for each mode of transport other than power units shall be three hundred fifty dollars ($350) per transporter per year. An other than power unit transporter shall not originally include, nor add, more than one (1) mode on the same license. For example, [a license for rail transport shall] for a rail transport license, do not include power unit hazardous waste transportation. 
(3) Fees and Taxes Applicable to Applicants for Permits or Certifications and to Owners/Operators of Treatment, Storage, and Disposal[, or Resource Recovery] Facilities. 
(A) An owner/operator of hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facility shall pay fees and taxes [required] as specified in subsections (1)(A), (B), and (C) of this rule. An owner/operator of a hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal[, or resource recovery] facility also shall pay fees and taxes [required] as speci- fied in section (1) of this rule for hazardous waste which is transport- ed off-site for final disposition. (Note: These fees are not applicable to waste transported off-site for storage only; however, the fees are applicable to the waste transported from the storage facility to the point of final disposition except as provided in section (1).) 
(B) A permit applicant shall pay the following fees upon applica- tion as [required] specified in subdivision 260.395.7(6), RSMo and in accordance with 10 CSR 25-7.270(2)(B)8.: One thousand dollars ($1,000) for each hazardous waste management treatment, storage, or disposal facility. The fee shall be submitted with the application. The fee shall cover the first year of the permit, if issued, but the fee is not refundable if the permit is not issued. If the permit is to be issued for more than one (1) year, the applicant shall pay fees as [required] specified in subsection (3)(C) of this rule. 
(C) A permit applicant shall pay the following fees as [required] specified in subdivision 260.395.7(6), RSMo, and in accordance with 10 CSR 25-7.270(2)(C)1.A.: One thousand dollars ($1,000) for each hazardous waste management treatment, storage, or disposal facility for each year the permit is to be in effect beyond the first year. 
(D) An applicant for a hazardous waste treatment, storage, or dis- posal facility permit [or resource recovery certification] shall pay all applicable costs in accordance with 10 CSR 25-7.270(2)(B)9., [10 CSR 25-9.020(5),] and as [required] specified by subdivi- sions 260.395.7(7) and 260.395.14(2), RSMo for engineering and geological review. Those costs for engineering and geological review will be billed in the following categories: 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1795 

1. The project engineer’s and geologist’s time expended in the following areas: 
A. Supervision of field work undertaken to collect geologic and engineering data for submission with the permit application or resource recovery certification application; 
B. Review of geologic and engineering plans submitted in relation to the permit application [or resource recovery certifica- tion application]; 
C. Assessment and attesting to the accuracy and adequacy of the geologic and engineering plans submitted in relation to the permit application [or resource recovery certification application]; and 
D. The project engineer’s and geologist’s time billed at the engineer’s and geologist’s hourly rates multiplied by a fixed factor of three and one-half (3 1/2). This fixed factor is comprised of direct labor; fringe benefits including, but not limited to, insurance, med- ical coverage, Social Security, Workers’ Compensation, and retire- ment; direct overhead, including, but not limited to, clerical support and supervisory engineering review and Hazardous Waste Program administrative and management support; general overhead, includ- ing, but not limited to, utilities, janitorial services, building expens- es, supplies, expenses and equipment, and department indirect costs; and engineering support, including, but not limited to, training, peer review, tracking and coordination; 
2. The direct costs associated with travel to the facility site to supervise any field work undertaken to collect geologic and engi- neering data or to ascertain the accuracy and adequacy of geologic and engineering plans, or both, including, but not limited to, expens- es actually incurred for lodging, meals, and mileage based on the rate established by the state of Missouri. These costs are in addition to the costs in paragraph (3)(D)1. of this rule; and 
3. Costs directly associated with public notification and depart- mental public hearings, including legal notice costs, media broadcast costs, mailing costs, hearing officer costs, court reporter costs, hear- ing room costs, and security costs, will be billed to the applicant. In a contested case as defined in section 536.070(4), RSMo, costs relat- ed to preparing and supplying one (1) copy of the transcript(s) of the case shall not be charged to the applicant. 
[(F) The applicant for a resource recovery certificate shall pay the following fee in accordance with 10 CSR 25- 9.020(4) and subdivision 260.395.14(2), RSMo when sub- mitting the application: Five hundred dollars ($500) if the application is for a resource recovery facility which legiti- mately reclaims or recycles hazardous waste on-site in accordance with 10 CSR 25-9 or one thousand dollars ($1,000) if the application is for a resource recovery facility which receives hazardous waste from off-site for legitimate reclamation or recycling in accordance with 10 CSR 25-9.] 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 260.380, 260.390, [and] 260.391, [RSMo Supp. 2013, sections 260.380 and] 260.395, 260.437, and 260.475, [RSMo Supp. 2014, section 260.395, RSMo Supp. 2015, and section 260.437,] RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 16, 1985, effective Oct. 1, 1986. For inter- vening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- 
ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 13—Polychlorinated Biphenyls 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-13.010 Polychlorinated Biphenyls. The commission proposes to amend sections (1) through (6), and sections (8) and (10) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) The regulations set forth in 40 CFR parts 761.3, 761.30(a)(2)(v), 761.60(b)(1)(i)(B), 761.60(g), 761.65(b), 761.71, 761.79, 761.72, and 761.180(b), July 1, 2013, as published by the Office of Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, are incorporated by reference. This rule does not incorporate any subse- quent amendments or additions. Except as provided otherwise in this rule, the substitution of terms set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) [shall apply] applies in this rule in addition to any other modifica- tions set forth in this rule. [Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent shall control.] 
(2) Applicability. (A) This rule [shall apply] applies in the state of Missouri to all 
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) material and PCB units as defined in subsection (3)(A) in shipment to or from or managed at a Missouri PCB facility. 
(B) Used oil containing PCBs at a concentration of less than fifty parts per million (50 ppm) and not otherwise meeting the definition of PCB material shall be managed in accordance with 10 CSR 25-11. 
(C) Where conflicting regulations exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent [shall] controls. 
(D) This rule does not relieve a regulated person from his/her responsibility to comply with the federal Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 USC 2601–2629 (December 22, 1987) or the corresponding regulations. 
(3) Definitions and Substitution of Terms. This section supplements and modifies the definitions in 10 CSR 25-3 and 10 CSR 25-7. 
(C) [The following terms shall be substituted] Substitute the following terms in the portions of 40 CFR Part 264, 40 CFR Part 265, 40 CFR Part 270, and 10 CSR 25 that apply in this rule: 
1. “PCB material,” “PCB units,” or both [shall be substitut- ed] for “hazardous waste”; 

Page 1796 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
2. “PCB facility” [shall be substituted] for “hazardous waste facility”; “hazardous waste treatment, storage or disposal facility”; “treatment, storage or disposal facility”; and “HWM facility”; and 
3. “PCB facility permit” [shall be substituted] for “Part B permit” and “RCRA permit.” 
(4) Manifesting, Record Keeping, and Reporting. (A) [Assignment of PCB Identification Numbers. PCB mate- 
rial and PCB units are assigned the following PCB identifica- tion numbers:] (Reserved) [M001 Mineral oil dielectric fluid containing equal to or greater than fifty parts per million (50 ppm) PCBs but less than five hundred parts per million (500 ppm) PCBs. 
M002 PCB-contaminated electrical equipment with dielectric fluid. M003 PCB-contaminated electrical equipment that has been drained of all free-flowing liquids. 
M004 Dielectric fluid containing greater than five hundred parts per million (500 ppm) PCBs. M005 PCB transformers with dielectric fluid. M006 PCB transformers that have been drained of all free- flowing liquids. 
M007 PCB transformers that have been flushed with solvent as prescribed in 40 CFR 761.60(b)(1)(i)(B). M008 Capacitors contaminated with PCBs. M009 Soil, solids, sludges, dredge materials, clothing, rags, or other debris contaminated with PCBs. 
M010 PCB-contaminated solvent. (Note: Any PCB-contami- nated solvent that meets the definition of hazardous waste shall further be identified by the appropriate EPA identifica- tion number.) 
M011 Other PCB material. M012 Other PCB units.] 
(B) Manifests. All shipments destined to or originating from a Missouri PCB facility shall meet the requirements of 40 CFR 761.207 through 40 CFR 761.219. Any [required] reports [shall be] specified in these regulations are to be submitted to the depart- ment as well as to the EPA Regional Administrator. 
(D) Reporting Requirements. The owner or operator of a PCB facility shall complete and submit the following reports to the department: 
1. [The owner or operator shall submit an annual report] An annual report prepared in accordance with 40 CFR 761.180(b) by July 15 of each year that covers the previous calendar year. [The annual report shall be prepared in accordance with 40 CFR 761.180(b).] 
2. [The owner or operator shall complete and submit,] A quarterly report that includes the following information within forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter[, a quar- terly report that includes the following information]: 
A. The name, address, and phone number of the facility; B. The quarter for which the report is prepared; C. A summary of the total quantity of PCB material and PCB 
units (designated by PCB identification number) received during the quarter. For the purpose of this report, any dielectric fluid drained from electrical equipment shall be designated as M001 or M004, as applicable; 
D. A summary of the total quantity of PCB material and PCB units (designated by PCB identification number) generated on-site; 
E. A summary of the total quantity of PCB material and PCB units (designated by PCB identification number) treated on-site and the method of treatment; 
F. A summary of the total quantity of PCB material and PCB units (designated by PCB identification number) transferred to other treatment, storage, or disposal facilities. A summary shall be pre- pared for each individual facility utilized and shall include a list of shipping dates and the method of final disposition; 
G. A summary of the total quantity of PCB material and PCB 
units (designated by PCB identification number) retained at the facil- ity at the end of the reporting quarter; 
H. In chronological order, a copy of each PCB manifest received during the reporting quarter; 
I. In chronological order, all completed manifests utilized for off-site shipments during that calendar quarter; and 
J. A certification with original signature of the owner or operator which reads: “CERTIFICATION: I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this and all attached documents, and that based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete for the quarterly accounting of PCB material so handled, and the operations of the facility referenced herein. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprison- ment.” [The original signature of the owner or operator shall follow this certification.] 
(E) Operating Record. The owner or operator of a PCB facility shall maintain a written operating record. This subsection sets forth record keeping requirements for storage and transfer operations. A PCB facility shall also comply with the applicable record keeping requirements set forth in sections (7) and (8) of this rule. The infor- mation [required] specified in this subsection shall be recorded, as it becomes available, and maintained in the operating record of the facility until closure of the facility. 
1. When PCB material is transferred from a PCB article or PCB container to a PCB container (for example, bulk tank or drum), the owner or operator shall record the following information: 
A. The date of transfer; B. The quantity of PCB material transferred; C. The appropriate PCB identification number or some other 
reference to the type of material and PCB concentration; D. Identification of the container into which the PCBs were 
transferred; and E. The manifest document number from the manifest that 
accompanied the consignment or some other type of cross reference to the manifest document number. 
2. When PCB material is transferred from a bulk tank to a tank truck, the owner or operator shall record information that indicates— 
A. The date transported; 
B. The tank identification and tank level or the quantity of PCB material removed from the tank; and 
C. The manifest document number(s) associated with the off- site shipment(s). 
(5) Transporter Requirements. (D) In addition to existing state and federal requirements, the 
department may require that PCB transporters use specific safety equipment, spill control equipment, and spill cleanup procedures [be utilized by PCB transporters]. 
(6) Provisionally Regulated PCB Facilities. (A) A PCB facility that meets the following criteria is defined as 
a provisionally regulated PCB facility: 1. [The facility accepts only PCB waste numbers M002 
and M003 for treatment and storage;] (Reserved) 2. The quantity of PCB material accumulated on-site never 
exceeds ten thousand pounds (10,000 lbs); 3. The quantity of large PCB units accumulated on-site never 
exceeds fifty (50) units; and 4. The treatment processes conducted at the facility are limited 
to decontamination of PCB units that contained less than five hun- dred parts per million (500 ppm) PCBs. 
(B) The owners or operators of provisionally regulated PCB facil- ities shall [comply with the following: 
1. Notification. The facility owner or operator shall] sub- mit a notification letter to the department prior to commencing oper- ation as a PCB facility[. The notification letter shall] that 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1797 

includes the following information: [A.]1. The facility name, address, and telephone number; and [B.]2. A description of the existing and proposed treatment and 
storage methods and capacities; [2.]3. Manifesting. PCB articles that are transported to a facil- 
ity for the purpose of servicing need not be accompanied by a man- ifest; and 
[3.]4. Owners or operators of PCB-contaminated metals recla- mation incinerators shall meet the minimum technical standards in subsection (12)(A) of this rule. 
(8) Standards for Owners and Operators of PCB Facilities. The owner and operator of a permitted Missouri PCB facility shall com- ply with this section. This section sets forth standards for a Missouri PCB facility permit which modify and add to the requirements of 40 CFR part 264 incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.264(1) and modified in 10 CSR 25-7.264(2), which apply in this rule. For those subsections marked Reserved in which no modification or addition is indicated, the requirements of 10 CSR 25-7.264 and those 40 CFR parts incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.264(1) apply. 
(I) Use and Management of Containers. This subsection sets forth standards which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR Part 264 Subpart I incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.264(1) and modified in 10 CSR 25-7.264(2)(I). 
1. The term container as used in this subsection [shall mean] means PCB article, PCB container, or both. 
2. The storage area shall meet the requirements in 40 CFR 761.65(b). 
3. The temporary storage exemptions in 40 CFR 761.65(c)(1) are not allowed for permitted PCB facilities. 
(O) PCB Incinerators. This subsection sets forth standards applic- able to PCB incinerators which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR part 264 subpart O, incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.264(1). 
1. The provisions of 40 CFR 264.340(b), as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.264(1), [shall] do not apply in this rule. 
2. The requirements of 40 CFR 264.343(a)(1), as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.264(1), are modified to require an incinerator burn- ing PCBs to achieve a destruction and removal efficiency (DRE) of ninety-nine and nine thousand nine hundred ninety-nine ten-thou- sandths percent (99.9999%). 
3. The provisions of 40 CFR 264.343(a)(2) as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.264(1) [shall] do not apply in this rule. 
4. Combustion criteria for PCB liquids and combustion gases entering a secondary chamber shall be either of the following: 
A. Maintenance of the introduced liquids for a two- (2-) sec- ond dwell time at twelve hundred degrees Celsius, plus or minus one hundred degrees Celsius (1,200°C ± 100°C) and three percent (3%) excess oxygen in the stack gas; or 
B. Maintenance of the introduced liquids for a one and one- half (1 1/2) second dwell time at sixteen hundred degrees Celsius, plus or minus one hundred degrees Celsius, (1,600°C ± 100°C) and two percent (2%) excess oxygen in the stack gas. 
5. Combustion efficiency shall be at least ninety-nine and nine- tenths percent (99.9%), computed as follows: Combustion efficiency equals the concentration of carbon dioxide divided by the sum of the concentration of carbon dioxide and the concentration of carbon monoxide multiplied by one hundred 
CCO2 )× 100 (CCO2 + CCO 
where CCO2 = the concentration of carbon dioxide; and 
where CCO = the concentration of carbon monoxide. 
6. The provisions of 40 CFR 264.344(a)(2), as incorporated in 
10 CSR 25-7.264(1) [shall] do not apply in this rule. 
(10) PCB Facility Permitting. The requirements in 40 CFR part 270, incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1) and modified in 10 CSR 25-7.270(2) apply in this rule. This section sets forth standards for a Missouri PCB facility permit which modify and add to the requirements of 40 CFR part 270 incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1) and modified in 10 CSR 25-7.270(2). This section does not apply to an owner or operator of a provisionally regulated PCB facility or a mobile treatment unit provided that the owner or operator maintains compliance with section (6) or (7) of this rule, respectively. For those subsections marked Reserved in which no modification or addition is indicated, the requirements of 10 CSR 25- 7.270 and those 40 CFR parts incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1) apply in this rule. 
(B) Permit Application. This subsection sets forth standards which modify or add to the requirements in 40 CFR part 270 subpart B, incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1) and modified in 10 CSR 25-7.270(2)(B). 
1. The requirements for qualifying for interim status are set forth in paragraph (10)(G)2. of this rule. 
2. The waste analysis plan [required] specified by 40 CFR 270.14(b)(3), as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1), shall be pre- pared in accordance with subsection (8)(B). 
3. These requirements are in addition to the specific information requirements for incinerators in 40 CFR 270.19 as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1). 
A. 40 CFR 270.19(a), as incorporated in 10 CSR 25- 7.270(1), [shall] does not apply in this rule. 
B. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 270.19(c)(5) as incorporated in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1), methods and results of moni- toring for the following parameters shall be submitted from any pre- viously-conducted trial burns: oxygen (O ); carbon dioxide (CO ); 
22 oxides of nitrogen (NOx); hydrochloric acid (HCl); total chlorinated 
organic content (RCl); PCBs; and total particulate matter. (G) Interim Status. This subsection sets forth standards which modify or add to those requirements in 40 CFR Part 270 Subpart G, incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 25-7.270(1) and modified in 10 
CSR 25-7.270(2)(G). 1. A PCB facility that meets the requirements of this subsection 
may continue to operate without a PCB permit if the facility remains in compliance with the interim status requirements in this subsection. 2. A PCB facility [shall qualify] qualifies for interim status if 
the facility— A. Was in operation on August 13, 1986; B. Filed a letter of intent with the department before 
December 12, 1986 to construct, alter, or operate the facility; and C. Is in compliance with section (9) of this rule. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, [and] 260.395, [RSMo Supp. 2013,] and [section] 260.396, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Aug. 14, 1986, effective Jan. 1, 1987. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not 
 

Page 1798 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 15—Hazardous Substance Environmental Remediation (Voluntary Cleanup Program) 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 25-15.010 Hazardous Substance Environmental Remedi- ation (Voluntary Cleanup Program). The commission is deleting section (2), amending sections (3), (4), (5), (6), (8), and (9), and renumbering as needed. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being amended to eliminate portions of the rule that only restate information that can also be found in the state statutes that establish the program. Removing these duplicative requirements will eliminate the need for future updates to the rule text if statutory provisions change in the future. 
[(2) Definitions and Substitution of Terms. This section sup- plements and modifies the definitions in 10 CSR 25-3. Where these definitions differ from those in 10 CSR 25-3, the modified definition is applicable only in this rule. 
(A) Additional Definitions. 1. Days means calender days unless otherwise speci- 
fied. 2. Environmental remedial cleanup means a remedial 
action at an affected site undertaken and financed by a per- son, which remedial action is subject to oversight and approval by the department, and with respect to which remedial action the person agrees to pay the department’s site-specific costs incurred in administration and oversight. 
3. Hazardous substance means any hazardous sub- stance specified in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. sec- tions 9601(14)(A)–(F) and any hazardous waste as defined in section 260.360, RSMo or any rules promulgated under sections 260.350–260.480, RSMo. 
4. Nonresidential property means any real property cur- rently or previously used for industrial or commercial purpos- es, or both. 
5. Participation fees means the two hundred dollar ($200) application fee, the initial oversight costs deposit not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5000) and all additional oversight cost reimbursements. 
6. Person means any individual, partnership, copartner- ship, firm, company, public or private corporation, associa- tion, joint stock company, trust, estate, political subdivision or any agency, board, department or bureau of the state or federal government or any other legal entity which is recog- nized by law as the subject of rights and duties. 
7. Phase I environmental site assessment means a non- invasive physical assessment of the real property conducted in accordance with American Society for Testing and 
Materials (ASTM) Standard E.1527 by a technical consultant who is familiar with the nature of the operations and activi- ties that have occurred on the real property. 
8. Phase II environmental site assessment means an invasive investigation by a technical consultant of those areas of concern identified during the Phase I environmental site assessment. 
(B) Modified definition applicable only to this rule. Remediation or remedial action means all appropriate actions taken to clean up contaminated real property, including but not limited to removal, remedial action and response as these terms are defined by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601).] 
[(3)](2) Intent to Participate. [(A) Persons desiring to remediate real property with over- 
sight by the department shall request an application form from the department.] 
[(B)](A) [The application form shall include the information set forth in section 260.567.1, RSMo and any other existing and relevant information required by the department. The application form shall be filled out completely and returned to the department with the two hundred dollar ($200) appli- cation fee.] Application forms may be submitted at any time from the completion of a Phase I environmental site assessment up through the development, but not including the implementation, of a remedial action plan. [Sites where remediation had been initiated or completed since August 28, 1994, will not be accepted into the voluntary cleanup program except in cases where limited action was taken to abate an emergency resulting from a release of hazardous substance.] 
[(C)](B) The department will review the form for completeness. The department will return any form deemed incomplete to the per- son for completion. Upon receipt of all requested information, the department will notify the person that the application form is com- plete and proceed according to section [(4)] (3) of this rule. 
[(D)](C) The department will deny applications for sites [which warrant clean-up under force of law or regulation under Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. section 6901 et seq., as amended, or the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. section 9601 et seq., as amended, or the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management law] pursuant to section 260.567.2, RSMo, including sites that fall within any of the following categories: 
1. Conditions at a site constitute an imminent and substantial threat to public health or the environment; 
2. Site inspection is completed and the site is being evaluated for listing on the National Priorities List (NPL); or 
3. Permitted or interim status Resource Conservation Recovery Act facilities[; or]. 
[4. Sites which warrant enforcement action for clean-up under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, or the Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Law.] 
[(4)](3) Environmental Remediation Oversight [Agreement]. [(A) Upon approval of the application, the department shall enter into a site-specific environmental remediation oversight agreement with the person. This agreement shall sets forth 
the responsibilities of the person and the department. (B) The person shall post an initial five thousand dollar ($5000) deposit with the department or a lesser amount as determined by the department to cover the department’s ini- tial oversight costs. The deposit shall be a check or an irrev- 
ocable letter of credit issued by a Missouri bank. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1799 

(C) The person shall submit a copy of all reports concern- ing the results of any site assessments, investigations, sam- ple collections and sample analyses, and any other existing and relevant information requested by the department. At a minimum, such reports and information shall consist of a Phase I environmental site assessment.] 
[1.](A) All reports, including other information requested by the department pursuant to [subsection (4)(C) of this rule] section 260.567.3, RSMo, shall be submitted within ninety (90) days follow- ing receipt of notice from the department that these reports are required. An extension may be granted at the department’s discre- tion. 
[2.](B) The department will review and comment on the reports within one hundred eighty (180) days. The one hundred eighty (180) days shall start upon receipt of all the reports or the deposit [required in subsection (4)(B) of this rule] pursuant to section 260.567.3, RSMo, whichever is later. 
[(D)](C) The person shall notify the department’s voluntary cleanup project manager by telephone, facsimile or letter no later than five (5) working days before the intended starting date of field work relating to site characterization or remediation. 
[(5)](4) Remedial Action Plan. (A) The person shall submit a remedial action plan for any conta- 
mination identified in the environmental site assessments within ninety (90) days following notice from the department that this infor- mation is required. An extension may be granted at the department’s discretion. The remedial action plan shall satisfy the requirements of section 260.567.6., RSMo. 
[1.] The department shall review the remedial action plan and determine if the plan is protective of human health and the environ- ment. If revisions or modifications of the plan are necessary, the department will notify the person of the required revisions. 
[2. The final remedial action plan, including all the revi- sions or modifications, shall be approved by the department within ninety (90) days of receipt if the plan satisfies the requirements of section 260.567.6., RSMo. 
(B) Implementation of the Approved Remedial Action Plan. 1. The approved remedial action plan shall be imple- mented by the person in accordance with the schedule con- 
tained in the work plan. 2. Quarterly progress reports shall be submitted to the 
department on forms provided by the department.] [3.](B) Completion Report. A final completion report signed by the person or an authorized agent, documenting that all required work has been satisfactorily completed shall be submitted to the 
department. 
[4. Departmental review and oversight of the environ- mental remediation shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the approved remedial action plan.] 
[(6)](5) Notification of Completion. The department will issue a let- ter [to the person stating that no remedial action or no fur- ther remedial action need be taken at the site related to any contamination identified in the environmental assessments, provided that—] of completion pursuant to section 260.573, RSMo. 
[(A) The person has complied with all provisions of this rule and sections 260.565—260.575, RSMo; 
(B) Remedial actions, if any, have been taken in accor- dance with the approved remedial action plan; and 
(C) All applicable participation fees have been remitted to the department.] 
[(7)](6) Termination of Environmental Remediation. (A) Pursuant to section 260.567.11., RSMo, a person may termi- nate participation at any time by providing the department with writ- ten notification [by certified mail]. This termination does not affect 
the person’s environmental liability. (B) Pursuant to section 260.569.3., RSMo, the department may 
terminate a person’s participation in the environmental remediation oversight agreement for cause. 
(C) Reimbursement of unspent oversight monies shall be handled in accordance with section 260.569.4., RSMo. 
[(8)](7) Oversight Reimbursements. The person shall reimburse the department for site-specific administration and oversight costs in accordance with section 260.569.1, RSMo and this rule. 
(A) A complete accounting of the costs incurred by the department will be billed to the person by certified mail at the following rates: 
1. Personnel. The project manager’s and geology and laboratory field personnel’s hourly rates multiplied by a fixed factor of three and one-half (3 1/2) will be the basis for time accounting billing. This fixed factor is comp[ri]osed of direct labor costs; fringe benefits, cal- culated at a rate developed by the department, indirect costs calculat- ed at a rate approved by the United States [Department of the Interior] Environmental Protection Agency; and direct overhead, including, but not limited to, the cost of clerical support and super- visory engineering review and Hazardous Waste Program administra- tive and management support; 
2. Expenses. The direct expenses incurred during administra- tion and oversight and any analytical costs associated with sampling; plus indirect costs calculated at the approved United States [Department of the Interior] Environmental Protection Agency rates; and 
3. Monitoring fee. For sites [which] that require engineering and/or institutional controls (e.g., capping, deed restrictions), the person shall submit a fee to cover the department’s long-term moni- toring costs. The department’s voluntary cleanup project manager shall establish a site-specific monitoring fee, ranging from five thou- sand dollars to fifteen thousand dollars ($5,000–$15,000). The amount of the monitoring fee shall be dependent upon the complexity of the site and the type of engineering and/or institutional controls. 
(B) The person shall reimburse the department as follows: 
[1. Initial department expenses shall be reimbursed from the two hundred dollar ($200) fee accompanying the appli- cation form.] 
[2.]1. After the two hundred dollar ($200) application fee has been expended pursuant to section 260.569.1, RSMo, reimburse- ment shall be made from the deposit [required in subsection (4)(B) of this rule] pursuant to section 260.567.3, RSMo. 
[3.]2. The department shall bill the person for any further expenses. The person shall reimburse the department within sixty (60) days following notice from the department that reimbursement is due. Failure to submit timely reimbursement may be grounds for termination of the environmental remediation oversight agreement. 
(C) The person may appeal [to the commission any charge within thirty (30) days of receipt of the bill in accordance with procedures outlined in section (9) of this rule] pursuant to section 260.569.1, RSMo. Upon appeal to the commission, the disputed amount shall be placed in escrow pending resolution of the appeal. 
[(9)](8) Appeals. [(A) The person may appeal to the commission any depart- 
mental action under sections 260.565—260.575, RSMo or this rule. 
1. Appeals shall be filed with the staff director to the com- mission by certified mail within thirty (30) days of the dis- puted department action. 
2. Appeals shall be in writing and shall specify the grounds for the appeal.] 
[(B)] Appeal hearings will be conducted by the commission in accordance with section 260.400, RSMo. 
AUTHORITY: sections 260.370, 260.567, 260.569, 260.571, and 

Page 1800 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
260.573, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Jan. 5, 1994, effective Aug. 28, 1994. Amended: Filed June 1, 1998, effective Jan. 30, 1999. Amended: Filed Feb. 1, 2001, effective Oct. 30, 2001. Rescinded: Filed June 12, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action. Interested persons, whether or not heard, may submit a written or email statement of their views until midnight on September 20, 2018. Written comments shall be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email comments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 25—Hazardous Waste Management Commission Chapter 16—Universal Waste 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 10 CSR 25-16.273 Standards for Universal Waste Management. 
The commission proposes to amend sections (1) and (2) of the rule. 
PURPOSE: All of the rules in Title 10, Division 25 relating to haz- ardous waste generators, permitted hazardous waste facilities, and hazardous waste transporters were reviewed as part of the depart- ment’s Red Tape Reduction initiative for the purpose of reducing reg- ulations that unnecessarily burden individuals and businesses while doing little to protect or improve public health and safety and our natural resources. The purpose of this amendment is to make changes consistent with this initiative to this rule. 
(1) The regulations set forth in 40 CFR part 273, July 1, 2013 as published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Superintendent of Documents, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, are incorporated by reference. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. Except as provided otherwise in this rule, the substitution of terms set forth in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) [shall apply] applies in this rule in addition to any other modifications set forth in section (2) of this rule. Where conflicting rules exist in 10 CSR 25, the more stringent [shall] rules control. 
(2) Small and large quantity handlers of universal waste, universal waste transporters, universal waste collection programs, and own- ers/operators of a universal waste destination facility shall comply with the requirements noted in this section in addition to require- ments set forth in 40 CFR part 273 incorporated in this rule. (Comment: This section has been organized such that Missouri addi- 
tions or changes to a particular federal subpart are noted in the cor- responding subsection of this section. For example, the requirements to be added to 40 CFR part 273 subpart A are found in subsection (2)(A) of this rule.) 
(B) Standards for Small Quantity Handlers of Universal Wastes. In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR part 273 subpart B, the fol- lowing regulations also apply except that additional state specific requirements do not apply to batteries as described in 40 CFR 273.2, as incorporated in this rule: 
1. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 273.11, a small quantity handler of universal waste is prohibited from accepting uni- versal waste pesticides from other universal waste pesticide handlers unless the receiving small quantity handler operates a universal waste pesticide collection program as defined in paragraph (2)(A)9. of this rule; 
2. The phrase “or received from another handler” in 40 CFR 273.15(a) in regards to universal waste pesticides is not incorporated in this rule because in Missouri small quantity handlers of universal waste pesticides are prohibited from accepting universal waste pesti- cides from another handler[. If a small quantity handler of uni- versal waste pesticides operates a universal waste pesticide collection program as defined in section (2) of this rule, the handler shall comply with the accumulation time limits spec- ified in the Department of Natural Resources’ Standard Procedures for Pesticide Collection Programs in Missouri] without a universal waste pesticide collection program; 
3. In 40 CFR 273.18(a), with respect to universal waste pesti- cides, remove the phrase “another universal waste handler” and replace it with “[a Missouri-certified resource recovery facility,] a universal waste pesticide collection program”; 
4. Subsections 40 CFR 273.18(d) through (g) are not incorpo- rated in this rule in regards to universal waste pesticides. In lieu of these subsections, the following requirements apply[. If a] to the originating handler if a shipment of universal waste pesticides is rejected by the [Missouri-certified resource recovery facility or] destination facility[,]: [t]The originating handler must either— 
A. Receive the waste back when notified that the shipment has been rejected; or 
B. Send the pesticides to another Missouri-certified resource recovery facility or to a destination facility which agrees to take the waste; 
5. (Reserved) 
6. The substitution of terms in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) does not apply in 40 CFR 273.20, as incorporated in this rule. The state may not assume authority from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to receive notifications of intent to export or to transmit this information to other countries through the Department of State or to transmit Acknowledgments of Consent to the exporter. This modifi- cation does not relieve the regulated person of the responsibility to comply with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) or other pertinent export control laws and regulations issued by other agencies. 
(C) Standards for Large Quantity Handlers of Universal Wastes. In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR part 273 subpart C, the fol- lowing regulations also apply: 
1. In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 273.31, a large quantity handler of universal waste is prohibited from accepting uni- versal waste pesticides from other universal waste pesticide handlers unless the receiving large quantity handler operates a universal waste pesticide collection program as defined in paragraph (2)(A)9. of this rule; 
2. A large quantity handler of universal waste who manages recalled universal waste pesticides as described in 40 CFR 273.3(a)(1) as modified by 10 CSR 25-16.273(2)(A)3. and who has sent notification to EPA as [required] established by 40 CFR part 165 is not required to notify EPA for those recalled universal waste pesticides under this section; 
3. In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR 273.33, a large 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1801 

quantity handler of universal waste must manage universal waste mercury-containing equipment in a way that prevents releases of any universal waste or components of universal waste to the environment, as follows: 
A. Ensure that a mercury clean-up system is readily available to immediately transfer any mercury-contaminated residue resulting from breakage, spills, or leaks into a container that meets the require- ments of 40 CFR 262.34; and 
B. Ensure that the area in which containers are stored is ven- tilated; 
4. In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR 273.33, a large quantity handler of universal waste must manage universal waste lamps in a way that prevents releases of any universal waste or com- ponents of universal waste to the environment, as follows: 
A. Ensure that a mercury clean-up system is readily available to immediately transfer any mercury-contaminated residue resulting from breakage, spills, or leaks into a container that meets the require- ments of 40 CFR 262.34; 
B. Ensure that the area in which containers are stored is ven- tilated; and 
C. Ensure that employees handling universal waste lamps are thoroughly familiar with proper waste mercury handling and emer- gency procedures, including transfer of spillage or released material into appropriate containers; 
5. In 40 CFR 273.35(a) and (b), the phrase “or received from another handler” is not incorporated in this rule in regards to univer- sal waste pesticides because in Missouri large quantity handlers of universal waste pesticides are prohibited from accepting universal waste pesticides from another handler[. If a large quantity handler of universal waste pesticides operates a universal waste pes- ticide collection program as defined in section (2) of this rule, the handler shall comply with the accumulation time limits specified in the Department of Natural Resources’ Standard Procedures for Pesticide Collection Programs in Missouri] without a universal waste pesticide collection program; 
6. In 40 CFR 273.35(c)(1) through (c)(6), the phrases “or is received” and “or was received” are not incorporated in this rule in regards to universal waste pesticides because in Missouri large quan- tity handlers of universal waste pesticides are prohibited from accept- ing universal waste pesticides from another handler[. If a large quantity handler of universal waste pesticides operates a universal waste pesticide collection program as defined in section (2) of this rule, the handler shall comply with the requirements for marking, labeling, and accumulation time limits that are specified in the Department of Natural Resources’ Standard Procedures for Pesticide Collection Programs in Missouri] without a universal waste pesticide collec- tion program; 
7. In 40 CFR 273.38(a), with respect to pesticide, remove the phrase “another universal waste handler” and replace it with “[a Missouri-certified resource recovery facility,] a universal waste pesticide collection program”; 
8. 40 CFR 273.38(d) through (f) are not incorporated in this rule with regards to universal waste pesticides. In lieu of these sub- sections, the following requirements apply[. If] to the originating handler if a shipment of universal waste pesticides from a large quantity generator is rejected by the [Missouri-certified resource recovery facility or] destination facility, the [original] originating handler must either— 
A. Receive waste back when notified that the shipment has been rejected; or 
B. Send the waste to another [Missouri-certified resource recovery facility or to a] destination facility which agrees to take the waste; 
9. (Reserved); 
10. 40 CFR 273.39(c)(1) is not incorporated in this rule in regards to universal waste pesticides because in Missouri large quan- tity handlers of universal waste pesticides are prohibited from receiv- 
ing shipments of universal waste pesticides from another handler[. If a large quantity handler of universal waste pesticides oper- ates a universal waste pesticide collection program as defined in section (2) of this rule, the handler shall comply with the record retention requirements that are specified in the Department of Natural Resources’ Standard Procedures for Pesticide Collection Programs in Missouri] without a uni- versal waste pesticide collection program; 
11. The substitution of terms in 10 CSR 25-3.260(1)(A) does not apply in 40 CFR 273.40, as incorporated in this rule. The state may not assume authority from the EPA to receive notifications of intent to export or to transmit this information to other countries through the Department of State or to transmit Acknowledgments of Consent to the exporter. This modification does not relieve the reg- ulated person of the responsibility to comply with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) or other pertinent export control laws and regulations issued by other agencies. 
(D) Standards for Universal Waste Transporters. 1. In addition to the requirements set forth in 40 CFR part 273, 
subpart D, universal waste transporters shall— A. Comply with all provisions of 10 CSR 25-6.263 if haz- 
ardous waste, as defined at 10 CSR 25-4.261 and not managed under the provisions of this rule, is transported in the state of Missouri; 
B. Comply with the provisions of 10 CSR 25-6.263(2)(C) fol- lowing a discharge of universal waste. 
2. In addition to the prohibitions in 40 CFR 273.51(a) and (b), a transporter of universal waste pesticides is prohibited from deliver- ing this waste to another universal waste handler except by delivery back to the original handler upon rejection of shipment by the [Missouri-certified resource recovery facility or] destination facility. 
3. In 40 CFR 273.51(a) add the phrase “into the environment” after the phrase “prohibited from disposing of universal waste.” 
(E) Standards for Destination Facilities. In addition to the require- ments in 40 CFR part 273 subpart E, the following regulations also apply: 
1. A universal waste destination facility that is also a permitted or interim status hazardous waste storage, treatment, or disposal facility must manage all universal wastes in an area which is separate from the permitted area or the waste loses its identity as universal waste and must be managed in compliance with the facility’s permit or interim status[;]. 
[2. A universal waste destination facility may be a Missouri-certified resource recovery facility if operating in compliance with the requirements for the universal waste in question and the standards of an R2 resource recovery facil- ity as described in 10 CSR 25-9.020(3)(A)3.] 
(F) (Reserved) 
(G) In addition to the requirements in 40 CFR 273 subpart G, any person seeking to add a hazardous waste or a category of hazardous waste to this rule shall[— 
1. C]comply with those provisions of section 536.041, RSMo, that describe a petition process to adopt, amend, or repeal any rule. 
AUTHORITY: section 260.370, RSMo [Supp. 2013] 2016. Original rule filed June 1, 1998, effective Jan. 30, 1999. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 14, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: The Missouri Hazardous Waste Management Commission 

Page 1802 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
will hold a public hearing on this rule action and others beginning at 10:00 a.m. on September 13, 2018, at the Elm Street Conference Center, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, Missouri. Any interest- ed person will have the opportunity to testify. Advance notice is not required. However, anyone who wants to make arrangements to tes- tify may do so prior to the hearing by contacting the secretary of the Hazardous Waste Management Commission at (573) 751-2747. 
Any person may submit written comments on this rule action.l be sent to the director of the Hazardous Waste Program at PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176. To be accepted, written comments must be postmarked by midnight on September 20, 2018. Email com- ments shall be sent to tim.eiken@dnr.mo.gov. Please direct all inquiries to the Rules Coordinator of the Hazardous Waste Program, at 1730 E. Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65102, telephone (573) 751-3176. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 3—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-3.010 Construction Authorization, Final Approval of Construction, Owner-Supervised Program, and Permit to Dispense Water. The department is amending section (1), removing language from (1)(A)3. and 4., amending (1)(B) and (C), amending (2)(B), removing language from (2)(B)1. and 2., incorporating a doc- ument by reference in (2)(B)2., and removing (2)(B)2.A., B., and C., amending (3)(A)2., (3)(A)3. and (3)(B), and creating section (4). 
PURPOSE: The amendment provides a construction authorization exemption for public water systems for certain routine maintenance and repair; incorporates a document by reference; and clarifies the timeframe for a subdivision to apply for a permit to dispense. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: The secretary of state has determined that the publication of the entire text of the material which is incorporated by reference as a portion of this rule would be unduly cumbersome or expensive. This material as incorporated by reference in this rule shall be maintained by the agency at its headquarters and shall be made available to the public for inspection and copying at no more than the actual cost of reproduction. This note applies only to the ref- erence material. The entire text of the rule is printed here. 
(1) Community Water System and Subdivision Requirements. (A) Written Construction Authorization. A supplier of water [which operates a community water system] must obtain writ- ten authorization from the department prior to construction, alter- ation, or extension of any community water system or a water sys- tem serving a subdivision, unless the project will be constructed under the provisions of 10 CSR 60-10.010(2)(C)2.[, and, for com- munity water systems commencing operation after October 1, 1999, must comply with the requirements of 10 CSR 60- 3.020 and 10 CSR 60-3.030] or the project is exempt as spec- 
ified in 10 CSR 60-3.010(4). 1. Two (2) copies of predesign studies pertaining to the project 
must be submitted to the department before plans and specifications for new water systems or for significant changes to existing water systems are reviewed for approval. 
2. Construction authorization shall be requested by submitting written application and two (2) copies of the plans and specifications, as outlined in 10 CSR 60-10.010(2), for the proposed project to the department for review and approval. 
3. Preparation of engineering reports, plans, and specifications [for community water systems] and inspection of construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and specifica- tions must be done by an engineer as defined by 10 CSR 60- 2.015(2)(E)2. 
4. A construction authorization shall be valid for a period of two (2) years from the date of authorization provided construction com- mences within the two (2) year timeframe. [If construction is not commenced within two (2) years from the date of autho- rization, a new construction authorization must be obtained from the department.] 
(B) Final Construction Approval. Final construction approval must be obtained from the department for all projects for which [approval is required] construction authorization was issued, before that project is placed into service. A supplier of water which operates a community water system need not obtain construction approval for projects constructed under the provisions of 10 CSR 60- 10.010(2)[(C)2.](B). 
(C) Supervised Construction Program. A supplier of water which operates a community water system may establish a supervised con- struction program as specified in 10 CSR 60-10.010(2)[(C)2.](B). 
(2) Noncommunity Water System Requirements. (B) Construction Authorization. Each noncommunity supplier of 
water must notify the department, in advance, of the intent to con- struct a new or expand an existing water system unless the project is exempt as specified in 10 CSR 60-3.010(4). 
1. Noncommunity water systems [utilizing surface or ground water under the direct influence of surface water and non- transient noncommunity water systems] must obtain written authorization from the department prior to construction, alteration, or extension of the system [and must comply with 10 CSR 60- 3.020 and 10 CSR 60-3.030]. 
2. [Transient n]Noncommunity water systems utilizing ground- water[—] shall be constructed in accordance with the depart- ment’s “Standards for Non-Community Public Water Supplies, 1982,” document published by the Department of Natural Resources, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102-0176, dated 1982 which is hereby incorporated by reference without any later amendments or additions. 
[A. May be required, at the discretion of the depart- ment, to submit plans and specifications for approval; 
B. Shall be constructed in accordance with the department’s “Standards for Non-Community Public Water Supplies, 1982”; and 
C. Must file with the department, within sixty (60) days of completion, a record of construction for all new or modified wells on forms provided by the department.] 
(3) Permits to Dispense Water. (A) Applicability. 
1. A water supply meeting all the following conditions is not considered a public water system and as such, is not required to have a permit to dispense if that water supply: 
A. Consists only of distribution and storage facilities; 
B. Obtains all of its water from, but is not owned or operated by a public water system to which the regulations apply; 
C. Does not sell water to any person; and 
D. Is not a carrier which conveys passengers in interstate commerce. 
2. Water systems serving subdivisions [as defined in 10 CSR 60-2.015(2)(S)8.] are public water systems unless each lot or tract is supplied by a private well with no interconnections to a distribution system and must have a permit to dispense water when serving the thresholds established for community and noncom- munity public water systems. 
3. Community and noncommunity water systems except as exempted in paragraph (3)(A)1. and 2. of this rule must have a per- mit to dispense water. 
(B) Modification or Revocation of a Permit to Dispense. The department may modify or revoke a permit to dispense water, subject to the appeal provisions of section 640.[130]115.5[.], RSMo, upon a finding that any of the following have occurred: 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1803 

1. The holder of a permit ceases to function as a public water supply; 
2. The holder of a permit fails to correct an operating deficiency or comply with these regulations within a reasonable time after receipt of notice from the department; 
3. The department determines that an emergency condition exists in a water supply which endangers, or could be expected to endanger, the health of a person(s) consuming affected water; 
4. The public water system changes ownership and the contin- uing operating authority, as defined in 10 CSR 60-3.020, fails to meet the requirements of 10 CSR 60-3.020; or 
5. For community water systems and nontransient noncommu- nity water systems against which an administrative order has been issued for significant noncompliance with the federal or state drink- ing water law or regulations, the water system fails to show that a permanent organization exists that serves as the continuing operating authority and that the continuing operating authority has the neces- sary technical, managerial, and financial capability for the manage- ment, operation, replacement, maintenance, and modernization of the public water system, or the water system is not making substan- tial progress toward compliance. The continuing operating authority may reapply for a permit to dispense when the compliance issues are resolved. 
(4) Construction Authorization Exemptions. (A) The following types of projects are exempt from obtaining 
construction authorization prior to construction: 1. Repair of water main leaks and breaks with the same size 
and type of pipe; 2. Replacement of a well pump of the same type, horsepow- 
er, pump rate, and elevation; 3. Replacement of a bladder tank with a storage capacity of 
less than one hundred twenty (120) gallons with the same size bladder tank; 
4. Painting of a storage tank with paint approved by the National Sanitation Foundation/American National Standards Institute (NSF/ANSI); 
5. Internal plumbing and piping replacement within a water system treatment facility; 
6. Replacement of a fire hydrant with a hydrant of the same size, type, and flow rate; and/or 
7. Subdivisions where each lot or tract is supplied by a pri- vate well with no interconnections to a distribution system. 
AUTHORITY: sections 640.100 and 640.115, RSMo [Supp. 1998] 2016. Original rule filed May 4, 1979, effective Sept. 14, 1979. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 3—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-3.020 Continuing Operating Authority. The depart- ment is amending (4)(A)2. and 3., amending (4)(B) and (4)(B)1., and correcting a citation in (6)(A)3.C.III. 
PURPOSE: Evaluate proposed amendments in response to Executive Order 17-03, correct regulation citations, and corrects the term “operation.” 
(4) Permit Review Upon Change in Ownership. (A) Prior to a change of continuing operating authority, the cur- 
rent continuing operating authority shall notify the department of the pending change at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to ownership transfer. The department will perform a permit review within forty- five (45) calendar days of notice of the ownership transfer to assess the following: 
1. The proposed continuing operating authority meets the con- tinuing operating authority requirements of this rule; 
2. The public water system is in compliance with applicable maximum contaminant levels and monitoring requirements of [10 CSR 60-4.010 through 10 CSR 60-4.110] 10 CSR 60-4; and 
3. The public water system is in compliance with the minimum positive pressure requirement of 10 CSR 60-4.080[(9)](8). 
(B) The permit to dispense water shall continue in effect until the department takes an action to issue a permit to the proposed new continuing operating authority [under subparagraphs (3)(C) 2.A. or B. of this rule] or to deny the permit to the proposed new con- tinuing operating authority [under subparagraph (3)(C)2.C. of this rule.] based on the following criteria: 
1. If the review shows that the proposed continuing operating authority and public water system meet all requirements in subsec- tion (4)(A), the department will issue a new permit to dispense when ownership transfer is complete showing the new owner as the contin- uing [operation] operating authority responsible for the manage- ment, operation, replacement, maintenance, and modernization of the public water system in compliance with the Missouri Safe Drinking Water Law and rules[.]; 
2. If the review shows the new continuing operating authority meets the requirement in paragraph (4)(A)1., but the public water system does not meet the requirements in paragraphs (4)(A)2. and 3., the department will negotiate an agreement with the proposed continuing operating authority for achieving compliance with these requirements. Upon completion of the agreement and when owner- ship transfer is complete, the department will issue a new permit to dispense water to the new continuing operating authority[.]; and 
3. If the review shows the proposed continuing operating authority does not meet the requirement in paragraph (4)(A)1., the permit to dispense water will be denied. 
(6) Continuing Operating Authorities. (A) Continuing operating authorities to whom the department will 
issue written construction authorizations under section (3) of this rule and permits to dispense water are listed here in preferential order. An applicant proposing a facility within the legal boundaries of an existing higher preference continuing operating authority may utilize a lower preference continuing operating authority by submit- ting, as part of the application, documentation that water service is not available from each existing higher preference continuing operat- ing authority, or a statement from each existing higher preference continuing operating authority waiving its preferential status. 
1. Municipality, public water supply district, and water system regulated by the Missouri Public Service Commission (PSC). (Note: Written construction authorizations and permits to dispense water 

Page 1804 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
will not be issued to a continuing operating authority regulated by the PSC until the continuing operating authority has obtained a certifi- cate of convenience and necessity from the PSC.) 
2. Any person showing complete control over and responsibility for the public water system and all property served by it. 
3. Any incorporated association of property owners served by a public water system provided that— 
A. The incorporated association owns the facility and has authority to lay all necessary water lines; 
B. All property owners within the boundaries of the associa- tion have adopted covenants covering the land of each property owner, which assure connection to the system when it is available and compliance with the bylaws and rules of the association; 
C. The bylaws of the association, or other appropriate docu- ments, provide for the proper management, operation, replacement, maintenance, and modernization of the facility including at a mini- mum: 
(I) The power to regulate the use of the facility; 
(II) The power to levy assessments on its members and enforce these assessments on each owner; and 
(III) The power to convey the facility to one (1) of the con- tinuing operating authorities listed in subsection [(5)(A)] (6)(A) of this rule; 
D. The documents establishing the continuing operating authority and the covenants called for in subparagraph (6)(A)3.B. of this rule shall be properly recorded with the recorder of deeds in the county or counties where the land within the boundaries of the asso- ciation lies and a certified copy of the recorded document shall be provided to the department. Additionally, a current title search cer- tified by a title insurance company authorized to do business in Missouri showing the owners of record of all real estate within the boundaries of the association and all lienholders must be provided to the department; all lienholders must subordinate their interest to the covenants; and 
E. The association is incorporated as a corporation under the laws of the state of Missouri and a current Certificate of Good Standing from the Missouri secretary of state and a certified copy of the Articles of Incorporation are provided to the department. 
AUTHORITY: sections 640.100 and 640.115, RSMo [Supp. 1998] 2016 Emergency rule filed Sept. 20, 1999, effective Sept. 30, 1999, expired March 27, 2000. Original rule filed July 1, 1999, effective March 30, 2000. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 3—Permits 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 10 CSR 60-3.030 Technical, Managerial, and Financial Capacity. 
The department is amending the purpose statement, removing (2)(D), amending (3)(A)2. and 3., amending (3)(B)1., and removing (4). 
PURPOSE: Proposed amendments to this rule were identified during the Red Tape Reduction rule review as duplicative language or over burdensome to the regulated community, the purpose statement is also being amended to remove a reference to the recommendations in the regulation. 
PURPOSE: This rule establishes minimum technical, managerial, and financial capacity requirements for community and nontransient noncommunity water systems commencing operation after October 1, 1999. [The rule also includes technical and financial capacity recommendations.] 
(2) General Requirements. 
[(D) Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems subject to this rule shall consider and plan for the potential impact of future regulations on their technical, managerial and financial capacity.] 
(3) Minimum Technical, Managerial, and Financial Capacity Requirements. 
(A) Minimum Technical Capacity Requirements. 1. All community water systems subject to this rule must con- 
form to [the department’s “Standards for Community Public Water Supplies.”] construction requirements in 10 CSR 60- 10.010. 
2. All nontransient noncommunity water systems subject to this rule must conform to [the department’s “Standards for Non- Community Public Water Supplies.”] construction require- ments in 10 CSR 60-3.010(2). 
3. All public water systems subject to this rule shall have a suf- ficient number of operators certified and equipped as required in 10 CSR 60-14 to provide proper operation and maintenance of all source, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities so that the pub- lic water system meets all requirements of sections 640.100-640.140, RSMo and regulations promulgated thereunder. [These operators shall be properly trained and be provided all equipment need- ed, including safety equipment, to perform all tasks in their job duties.] 
4. All public water systems subject to this rule shall have and maintain an updated distribution system map showing, at a mini- mum, the size and location of all waterlines, valves, hydrants, storage facilities, pumping facilities, treatment facilities, and water sources and shall make the map available to the department on request. 
(B) Minimum Managerial Capacity Requirements. 
[1. Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems subject to this rule shall have an organization chart that shows every position that provides any drinking water function with the position title, name, business address, and telephone number of the person filling that position. This chart shall show clear lines of authority and supervision. Elected officials and managers that have overall jurisdiction shall also be shown on this chart. The chart shall state the name(s) of the persons or legal entity who own the public water system along with the business address and tele- phone number of the owner(s). This chart shall be publicly displayed and shall be updated within thirty (30) calendar days of any changes. An updated copy of the organization chart shall be made available to the department.] 
1. Community and nontransient noncommunity water sys- tems subject to this rule shall maintain a list that shows position titles, names, business addresses, and telephone numbers of indi- viduals that provide drinking water functions, including the per- son(s) or legal entity who owns the public water system. An updat- ed copy of the list shall be made available to the department. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1805 

2. Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems subject to this rule shall designate a person or persons who will receive customer complaints and shall have a written procedure for receiving, investigating, resolving, and recording customer com- plaints. The name, title, business address, business telephone num- ber, and office hours of the person(s) designated to receive com- plaints shall be publicly displayed, along with the written complaint procedure. Complaint records shall be kept for a minimum of five (5) years and shall be made available to the department upon request. Results of investigations shall be used as part of the planning process for future improvements. 
3. Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems subject to this rule shall have a written rate structure and service fees, and the rate structure and service fees shall be publicly dis- played and shall be made available to the department upon request. 
4. Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems subject to this rule shall hold at least one (1) public meeting prior to changing the rate structure or service fees and shall notify the cus- tomers in advance of the public meeting by posting notice in the prin- cipal business office and providing notice in the area served, unless the rate increase procedure is regulated by other state or federal reg- ulations. Records of customers’ notice and summary of the public meeting shall be kept for a minimum of five (5) years and shall be made available to the department upon request. 
5. Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems subject to this rule shall designate a person to deal with compliance- related issues in accordance with the public drinking water regula- tions in 10 CSR 60, including reporting and public notice require- ments. This person shall be trained in public drinking water regula- tion requirements and shall act as liaison with the department on drinking water issues. The department will refer compliance actions to this person. The name, position title, business address, business telephone number, and office hours for this person shall be made available to the department and the department shall be notified with- in thirty (30) calendar days of any change. 
[(4) Recommendations. This section includes recommenda- tions for further enhancing managerial and financial capaci- ty. These recommendations will not be used to determine if minimum regulatory requirements are met for issuance of permits to dispense water. 
(A) Managerial capacity recommendations include the fol- lowing: 
1. All public water systems should designate a person to be liaison with other public water systems and officials of entities that may impact drinking water systems. This person should be trained in water resource planning and general public drinking water system issues; and 
2. All public water systems should have management with sufficient expertise to ensure that all public drinking water facilities are properly operated, maintained and in compliance with department regulations; improvements needed for future population and commercial growth are properly planned and that these plans are financed and exe- cuted; all personnel providing drinking water functions con- tinue to be trained to achieve professional expertise in their field; the personnel are organized and motivated to provide good customer service, good interaction with the depart- ment and other regulatory agencies, good interaction with other regional water systems and water users including par- ticipating in long-term strategic planning for management of regional water resources; and that the supply finances are fiscally sound. 
(B) Financial capacity recommendations include the fol- lowing: 
1. Revenues from drinking water sales should cover all public water system costs for the system including operating costs, maintenance costs, debt service costs, operating 
reserves, debt reserves, emergency equipment replacement reserves, and revenue collection costs. Capital improvement funding for facilities needed for upgrading the existing sys- tem should come from revenue from water sales or other sources of capital. Rates should be set accordingly; 
2. New connection fees, development fees, and other funding sources should cover all public water supply capital improvements costs for facilities needed for expanding the system for new customers. Fees should be set accordingly; and 
3. All drinking water generated revenues should be used for drinking water purposes. For public water systems owned by entities that provide other services in addition to drinking water, drinking water purposes should include equi- table share of administrative costs for the entire entity.] 
AUTHORITY: sections 640.100 and 640.115, RSMo [Supp. 1998] 2016. Emergency rule filed Sept. 20, 1999, effective Sept. 30, 1999, expired March 27, 2000. Original rule filed July 1, 1999, effective March 30, 2000. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is sched- uled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-4.022 Revised Total Coliform Rule. The department is removing language from the purpose statement, deleting language in (1)(C), with renumbering thereafter, amending sections (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (10), and (11). 
PURPOSE: The amendment will remove sunset language due to the rescission of 10 CSR 60-4.020, amend the purpose, and correct a citation related to 10 CSR 60-7.010. 
PURPOSE: The rule establishes sampling and monitoring require- ments for public water systems. The rule also establishes a maximum contaminant level (MCL) for E. coli and uses E. coli and total col- iforms to initiate a “find and fix” approach to address fecal contam- ination that could enter into the distribution system. It requires pub- lic water systems to perform assessments to identify sanitary defects and subsequently take corrective action to correct them. The rule sets monitoring and treatment technique requirements for seasonal sys- tems. [At the beginning of each operating period, before serv- ing water to the public, seasonal systems meeting criteria must conduct state-approved start-up procedures and certify completion of start-up procedures.] The rule is based on the requirements in the federal Revised Total Coliform Rule found in sub- part Y of 40 CFR part 141. 

Page 1806 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(1) General Requirements and Applicability. 
[(C) Compliance date. Systems must comply with the pro- visions of this rule beginning April 1, 2016, unless otherwise specified in this rule]. 
[(D)](C) Violations of national primary drinking water regula- tions. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements of this rule, including requirements established by the department pursuant to these provisions, is a violation of the National Primary Drinking Water Regulations. 
(3) General monitoring requirements for all public water systems. (A) Sample siting plans. 
1. Systems must develop a written sample siting plan that iden- tifies sampling sites and a sample collection schedule that are repre- sentative of water throughout the distribution system [no later than March 31, 2016]. These plans are subject to department review and revision. Systems must collect total coliform samples according to the written sample siting plan. Monitoring required by sections (4)–(8) of this rule may take place at a customer’s premise, dedicated sampling station, or other designated compliance sampling location. Routine and repeat sample sites and any sampling points necessary to meet the requirements of 10 CSR 60-4.025 must be reflected in the sampling plan. 
2. The minimum monitoring frequency for total coliforms is based on the population served by the system as defined in the chart in section (7) of this rule except that systems using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water or systems practicing iron removal or lime softening must collect at least five (5) samples per month. Unless the department approves or specifies in writing of a lesser frequency based on population and system type as defined in sections (4)–(7) of this rule, systems must monitor each calendar month that the system provides water to the public and determine compliance with the MCL in subsection (10)(A) of this rule for each month in which it is required to monitor. Systems must collect samples at regular time intervals throughout the month, except that systems that use only ground water and serve four thou- sand nine hundred (4,900) or fewer people may collect all required samples on a single day if they are taken from different sites. 
3. Systems must take at least the minimum number of required samples even if the system has had an E. coli maximum contaminant level (MCL) violation or has exceeded the coliform treatment tech- nique triggers in subsection (9)(A) of this rule. 
4. A system may conduct more compliance monitoring than is required by this rule to investigate potential problems in the distrib- ution system and use monitoring as a tool to assist in uncovering problems. A system may take more than the minimum number of required routine samples and must include the results in calculating whether the coliform treatment technique trigger in subparagraphs (9)(A)1.A.–B. of this rule has been exceeded only if the samples are taken in accordance with the existing sample siting plan and are rep- resentative of water throughout the distribution system. 
5. Systems must identify repeat monitoring locations in the sample siting plan. Unless the provisions of subparagraphs (3)(A)5.A. or B. of this rule are met, the system must collect at least one (1) repeat sample from the sampling tap where the original total coliform-positive sample was taken, and at least one (1) repeat sam- ple at a tap within five (5) service connections upstream and at least one (1) repeat sample at a tap within five (5) service connections downstream of the original sampling site. If a total coliform-positive sample is at the end of the distribution system, or one (1) service connection away from the end of the distribution system, the system must still take all required repeat samples. However, the department may allow an alternative sampling location instead of the requirement to collect at least one (1) repeat sample upstream or downstream of the original sampling site. Except as provided for in subparagraph (3)(A)5.B. of this rule, systems required to conduct triggered source water monitoring under 10 CSR 60–4.025(3)(A) must take ground water source sample(s) in addition to repeat samples required under 
this rule. A. Systems may propose repeat monitoring locations to the 
department that the system believes to be representative of a pathway for contamination of the distribution system. A system may elect to specify either alternative fixed locations or criteria for selecting repeat sampling sites on a situational basis in a standard operating procedure (SOP) in its sample siting plan. The system must design its SOP to focus the repeat samples at locations that best verify and determine the extent of potential contamination of the distribution system area based on specific situations. The department may modify the SOP or require alternative monitoring locations as needed. 
B. Ground water systems serving one thousand (1,000) or fewer people may propose repeat sampling locations to the depart- ment that differentiate potential source water and distribution system contamination (e.g., by sampling at entry points to the distribution system). A ground water system with a single well required to con- duct triggered source water monitoring may, with written department approval, take one (1) of its repeat samples at the monitoring location required for triggered source water monitoring under 10 CSR 60- 4.025(3)(A) if the system demonstrates to the department’s satisfac- tion that the sample siting plan remains representative of water qual- ity in the distribution system. If approved by the department, the sys- tem may use that sample result to meet the monitoring requirements in both 10 CSR 60-4.025(3)(A) and this section. 
(I) If a repeat sample taken at the monitoring location required for triggered source water monitoring is E. coli-positive, the system has violated the E. coli MCL and must also comply with 10 CSR 60-4.025(3)(A)3. If a system takes more than one (1) repeat sample at the monitoring location required for triggered source water monitoring, the system may reduce the number of additional source water samples required under 10 CSR 60-4.025(3)(A)3. by the num- ber of repeat samples taken at that location that were not E. coli-pos- itive. 
(II) If a system takes more than one (1) repeat sample at the monitoring location required for triggered source water monitor- ing under 10 CSR 60-4.025(3)(A) and more than one (1) repeat sam- ple is E. coli-positive, the system has violated the E. coli MCL and must also comply with 10 CSR 60-4.025(4)(A)1. 
(III) If all repeat samples taken at the monitoring location required for triggered source water monitoring are E. coli-negative and a repeat sample taken at a monitoring location other than the one required for triggered source water monitoring is E. coli-positive, the system has violated the E. coli MCL, but is not required to comply with 10 CSR 60-4.025(3)(A)3. 
6. The department may review, revise, and approve, as appro- priate, repeat sampling proposed by systems under subparagraphs (3)(A)5.A.–B. of this rule. The system must demonstrate that the sample siting plan remains representative of the water quality in the distribution system. The department may determine that monitoring at the entry point to the distribution system (especially for undisin- fected ground water systems) is effective to differentiate between potential source water and distribution system problems. 
(4) Routine monitoring requirements for non[-]community water sys- tems serving one thousand (1,000) or fewer people using only ground water. 
(A) General monitoring requirements. 1. The provisions of this section apply to non[-]community 
water systems using only ground water (except ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in 10 CSR 60-2.015) and serving one thousand (1,000) or fewer people. 
2. Following any total coliform-positive sample taken under the provisions of this section, systems must comply with the repeat mon- itoring requirements and E. coli analytical requirements in section (8) of this rule. 
3. Once all monitoring required by this section and section (8) of this rule for a calendar month has been completed, systems must determine whether any coliform treatment technique triggers specified 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1807 

in section (9) of this rule have been exceeded. If any trigger has been exceeded, systems must complete assessments as required by section (9) of this rule. 
4. For the purpose of determining eligibility for remaining on or qualifying for quarterly monitoring under the provisions of para- graphs (4)(F)4. and (4)(G)2., respectively, of this rule for transient non[-]community water systems, the department may elect to not count monitoring violations under paragraph (10)(C)1. of this rule if the missed sample is collected no later than the end of the monitoring period following the monitoring period in which the sample was missed. The system must collect the make-up sample in a different week than the routine sample for that monitoring period and should collect the sample as soon as possible during the monitoring period. The department may not use this provision under subsection (H) of this section. This authority does not affect the provisions of para- graph (10)(C)1. of this rule and 10 CSR 60-7.010[(12)](11)(D). 
(B) Monitoring frequency for total coliforms. Unless the depart- ment approves of a lesser frequency in writing and the system meets criteria provided under subsections (4)(C) through (4)(H) and (4)(J) of this rule, the minimum monitoring frequency for total col- iforms is one (1) sample per month except that systems practicing iron removal or lime softening must collect at least five (5) routine samples per month. In addition, the department may require a greater frequency if necessary. Seasonal systems must meet the mon- itoring requirements of subsection (4)(I) of this rule. [With written department approval, systems must monitor each calendar quarter that the system provides water to the public, except for seasonal systems or as provided under subsections (4)(C)-(H) and (4)(J) of this rule.] 
(C) Transition to the Revised Total Coliform Rule. 
[1. Systems, including seasonal systems, must continue to monitor according to the total coliform monitoring sched- ules under 10 CSR 60-4.020 that were in effect on March 31, 2016, unless any of the conditions for increased moni- toring in subsection (4)(F) of this rule are triggered on or after April 1, 2016, or unless otherwise directed by the department.] 
[2. Beginning April 1, 2016, t]The department will perform a special monitoring evaluation during each sanitary survey to review the status of the system, including the distribution system, to deter- mine whether the system is on an appropriate monitoring schedule. After the department has performed the special monitoring evalua- tion during each sanitary survey, the department may modify the sys- tem’s monitoring schedule, as necessary, or it may allow the system to stay on its existing monitoring schedule, consistent with the provi- sions of this section (4). The department may not allow systems to begin less frequent monitoring under the special monitoring evalua- tion unless the system has already met the applicable criteria for less frequent monitoring in this section. For seasonal systems on quarter- ly or annual monitoring, this evaluation must include review of the approved sample siting plan, which must designate the time period(s) for monitoring based on site-specific considerations (e.g., during periods of highest demand or highest vulnerability to contamination). The seasonal system must collect compliance samples during these time periods. 
(D) Annual site visits. [Beginning no later than calendar year 2017, s]Systems on annual monitoring, including seasonal systems, must have an initial and recurring annual site visit by the department that is equivalent to a Level 2 assessment or an annual voluntary Level 2 assessment that meets the criteria in subsection (9)(B) to remain on annual monitoring. The periodic required sanitary survey may be used to meet the requirement for an annual site visit for the year in which the sanitary survey was completed. 
(E) Criteria for annual monitoring. [Beginning April 1, 2016, t]The department may reduce the monitoring frequency for a well- operated ground water system from quarterly routine monitoring to no less than annual monitoring, if the system demonstrates that it meets the criteria for reduced monitoring in paragraphs (4)(E)1.-3. 
of this rule, except for a system that has been on increased monitor- ing under the provisions of subsection (4)(F) of this rule. A system on increased monitoring under subsection (4)(F) of this rule must meet the provisions of subsection (4)(G) of this rule to go to quarter- ly monitoring and must meet the provisions of subsection (4)(H) of this rule to go to annual monitoring. 
1. The system has a clean compliance history for a minimum of twelve (12) months[;]. 
2. The most recent sanitary survey shows that the system is free of sanitary defects or has corrected all identified sanitary defects, has a protected water source, and meets approved construction stan- dards[; and]. 
3. The department has conducted an annual site visit within the last twelve (12) months, and the system has corrected all identified sanitary defects. The system may substitute a Level 2 assessment that meets the criteria in subsection (9)(B) of this rule for the department annual site visit. 
(I) Seasonal systems. 1. [Beginning April 1, 2016, a]All seasonal systems must 
demonstrate completion of a department-approved start-up proce- dure, which may include a requirement for startup sampling prior to serving water to the public. 
2. A seasonal system must monitor every month that it is in operation unless it meets the criteria in subparagraphs (4)(I)2.A.–C. of this rule to be eligible for monitoring less frequently than monthly [beginning April 1, 2016], except as provided under subsection (4)(C) of this rule. 
A. Seasonal systems monitoring less frequently than monthly must have an approved sample siting plan that designates the time period for monitoring based on site-specific considerations (e.g., during periods of highest demand or highest vulnerability to contam- ination). Seasonal systems must collect compliance samples during this time period. 
B. To be eligible for quarterly monitoring, the system must meet the criteria in subsection (4)(G) of this section. 
C. To be eligible for annual monitoring, the system must meet the criteria under subsection (4)(H) of this rule. 
3. The department may exempt any seasonal system from some or all of the requirements for seasonal systems if the entire distribu- tion system remains pressurized during the entire period that the sys- tem is not operating, except that systems that monitor less frequently than monthly must still monitor during the vulnerable period desig- nated by the department. 
(5) Routine monitoring requirements for community water systems serving one thousand (1,000) or fewer people using only ground water. 
(C) Transition to the Revised Total Coliform Rule. 1. Unless any of the conditions in subsection (5)(E) of this rule are triggered, or unless otherwise directed by the depart- ment, [A]all systems must continue to monitor according to the total coliform monitoring schedules under [10 CSR 60-4.020 that were in effect on March 31, 2016, unless any of the condi- tions in subsection (5)(E) of this rule are triggered on or after April 1, 2016, or unless otherwise directed by the depart- ment.] the Environmental Protection Agency’s Code of Federal Regulations, 40 CFR 141.21, published February 13, 2013. This document is incorporated by reference without any later amend- ments or modifications. To obtain a copy, contact the U.S. Government Printing Office at 732 North Capitol Street NW, Washington, D.C., 20401, toll free at (866)512-1800 or by visiting 
https://bookstore.gpo.gov. 2. [Beginning April 1, 2016, t]The department must perform 
a special monitoring evaluation during each sanitary survey to review the status of the system, including the distribution system, to deter- mine whether the system is on an appropriate monitoring schedule. After the department has performed the special monitoring evalua- tion during each sanitary survey, the department may modify the sys- tem’s monitoring schedule, as necessary, or it may allow the system 

Page 1808 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
to stay on its existing monitoring schedule, consistent with the provi- sions of this section. The department may not allow systems to begin less frequent monitoring under the special monitoring evaluation unless the system has already met the applicable criteria for less fre- quent monitoring in this section. 
(6) Routine monitoring requirements for surface water and ground water under the direct influence of surface water public water sys- tems serving one thousand (1,000) or fewer people. 
(A) General Routine Monitoring. 1. This section (6) applies to surface water and ground water 
under the direct influence of surface water systems serving one thou- sand (1,000) or fewer people. 
2. Following any total coliform-positive sample taken under the provisions of this section (6), systems must comply with the repeat monitoring requirements and E. coli analytical requirements in sec- tion (8) of this rule. 
3. Once all monitoring required by this section (6) and section (8) of this rule for a calendar month has been completed, systems must determine whether any coliform treatment technique triggers specified in section (9) have been exceeded. If any trigger has been exceeded, systems must complete assessments as required by section (9) of this rule. 
4. Seasonal systems. A. [Beginning April 1, 2016, a]All seasonal systems must 
demonstrate completion of a department-approved start-up proce- dure, which may include a requirement for start-up sampling prior to serving water to the public. 
B. The department may exempt any seasonal system from some or all of the requirements for seasonal systems if the entire dis- tribution system remains pressurized during the entire period that the system is not operating. 
(7) Routine monitoring requirements for public water systems serv- ing more than one thousand (1,000) people. 
(A) General Routine Monitoring. 1. The provisions of this section apply to public water systems 
serving more than one thousand (1,000) people. 2. Following any total coliform-positive sample taken under the 
provisions of this section, systems must comply with the repeat mon- itoring requirements and E. coli analytical requirements in section (8) of this rule. 
3. Once all monitoring required by this section and section (8) of this rule for a calendar month has been completed, systems must determine whether any coliform treatment technique triggers speci- fied in section (9) of this rule have been exceeded. If any trigger has been exceeded, systems must complete assessments as required by section (9) of this rule. 
4. Seasonal systems. A. [Beginning April 1, 2016, a]All seasonal systems must 
demonstrate completion of a department-approved start-up proce- dure, which may include a requirement for start-up sampling prior to serving water to the public. 
B. The department may exempt any seasonal system from some or all of the requirements for seasonal systems if the entire dis- tribution system remains pressurized during the entire period that the system is not operating. 
(C) Reduced monitoring. Systems may not reduce monitoring, except for non[-]community water systems using only ground water (and not ground water under the direct influence of surface water) serving one thousand (1,000) or fewer people in some months and more than one thousand (1,000) people in other months. In months when more than one thousand (1,000) people are served, the systems must monitor at the frequency specified in subsection (7)(B) of this rule. In months when one thousand (1,000) or fewer people are served, the department may reduce the monitoring frequency, in writing, to a frequency allowed under section (4) of this rule for a similarly situated system that always serves one thousand (1,000) or 
fewer people, taking into account the provisions in subsection [(7)](4)(E)–(G) of this rule. 
(8) Repeat monitoring and E. coli requirements. (B) Escherichia coli (E. coli) testing. 
1. If any routine or repeat sample is total coliform-positive, the system must analyze that total coliform-positive culture medium to determine if E. coli are present. If E. coli are present, the system must notify the department by the end of the day when the system is notified of the test result, unless the system is notified of the result after the department office is closed and the department does not have either an after-hours phone line or an alternative notification procedure, in which case the system must notify the department before the end of the next business day. 
2. The department has the discretion to allow a system, on a case-by-case basis, to forgo E. coli testing on a total coliform-posi- tive sample if that system assumes that the total coliform-positive sample is E. coli-positive. Accordingly, the system must notify the department as specified in paragraph (8)(B)1. of this rule and the provisions of [10 CSR 60-4.020(7)(C) apply.] the Environmental Protection Agency’s Code of Federal Regulations, 40 CFR 141.63(c), published February 13, 2013. This document is incorporated by reference without any later amendments or modifications. To obtain a copy, contact the U.S. Government Printing Office at 732 North Capitol Street NW, Washington, D.C., 20401, toll free at (866)512-1800 or by visiting https://bookstore.gpo.gov. 
(10) Violations. (A) E. coli Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) Violation. A 
system is in violation of the MCL for E. coli when any of the condi- tions identified in paragraphs (10)(A)1.-4. of this rule occur. For purposes of the public notification requirements in 10 CSR 60- 8.010, violation of the MCL for E. coli may pose an acute risk to health. 
1. The system has an E. coli-positive repeat sample following a total coliform-positive routine sample. 
2. The system has a total coliform-positive repeat sample fol- lowing an E. coli-positive routine sample. 
3. The system fails to take all required repeat samples following an E. coli-positive routine sample. 
4. The system fails to test for E. coli when any repeat sample tests positive for total coliform. 
(11) Reporting Requirements. Reporting requirements are in section [(12)] (11) of 10 CSR 60-7.010 Reporting Requirements. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Aug. 12, 2015, effective March 30, 2016. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is sched- uled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1809 

Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-4.025 Ground Water Rule Monitoring and Treatment Technique Requirements. The department is removing sunset lan- guage in this rule with renumbering thereafter, incorporating a doc- ument by reference in (3)(C)2., and citations to other chapters have been amended due to concurrent rule changes. 
PURPOSE: This amendment removes sunset language due to the rescission of 10 CSR 60-4.020 Total Coliform Rule and updates cita- tions to other regulations due to concurrent rulemaking amendments. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: The secretary of state has determined that the publication of the entire text of the material which is incorporated by reference as a portion of this rule would be unduly cumbersome or expensive. This material as incorporated by reference in this rule shall be maintained by the agency at its headquarters and shall be made available to the public for inspection and copying at no more than the actual cost of reproduction. This note applies only to the ref- erence material. The entire text of the rule is printed here. 
(3) Ground Water Source Microbial Monitoring. (A) Triggered Source Water Monitoring. 
1. General requirements. A ground water system must conduct triggered source water monitoring if the following conditions exist: 
A. The system does not provide at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a state-approved combination of 4-log virus inactivation and removal) before or at the first cus- tomer for each ground water source; and [either] 
[B. The system is notified that a sample collected under 10 CSR 60-4.020(1) is total coliform-positive and the sample is not invalidated under 10 CSR 60-4.020(3) until March 31, 2016; or] 
[C.]B.The system is notified that a sample collected under 10 CSR 60-4.022(4)-(7) is total coliform-positive and the sample is not invalidated under 10 CSR 60-4.022(3)(C)[, beginning April 1, 2016]. 
2. Sampling requirements. A ground water system must collect, within twenty-four (24) hours of notification of the total coliform- positive sample, at least one (1) ground water source sample from each ground water source in use at the time the total coliform-posi- tive sample was collected under [10 CSR 60-4.020(1), until March 31, 2016, or collected under] 10 CSR 60-4.022(4)-(7) [beginning April 1, 2016,] except as provided in subparagraph (3)(A)2.B. of this rule. 
A. The department may extend the twenty-four (24) hour time limit on a case-by-case basis if the system cannot collect the ground water source water sample within twenty-four (24) hours due to circumstances beyond its control. In the case of an extension, the department will specify how much time the system has to collect the sample. 
B. If approved by the department, systems with more than one (1) ground water source may meet the requirements of this subpara- graph by sampling a representative ground water source or sources. If directed by the department, systems must submit for department approval a triggered source water monitoring plan that identifies one (1) or more ground water sources that are representative of each monitoring site in the system’s sample siting plan under [10 CSR 60-4.020(1) until March 31, 2016, or under] 10 CSR 60- 4.022(3) [beginning April 1, 2016,] and that the system intends to use for representative sampling for triggered source water monitor- ing. 
[C. Until March 31, 2016, a ground water system serving one thousand (1,000) people or fewer may use a 
repeat sample collected from a ground water source to meet both the requirements of 10 CSR 60-4.020(2) and to satisfy the monitoring requirements of this section (3) for that ground water source only if the department approves the use of E. coli as a fecal indicator for source water monitoring under this subsection (3)(A). If the repeat sample collected from the ground water source is E. coli positive, the system must comply with the additional requirements in paragraph (3)(A)3. of this rule.] 
[D.]C. [Beginning April 1, 2016, a]A ground water sys- tem serving one thousand (1,000) or fewer people may use a repeat sample collected from a ground water source to meet both the requirements of 10 CSR 60-4.022 and to satisfy the monitoring requirements of paragraph (3)(A)2. of this rule for that ground water source only if the department approves the use of E. coli as a fecal indicator for source water monitoring under this subsection (3)(A) and approves the use of a single sample for meeting both the trig- gered source water monitoring requirements in this subsection (3)(A) and the repeat monitoring requirements in 10 CSR 60-4.022(8). If the repeat sample collected from the ground water source is E. coli positive, the system must comply with paragraph (3)(A)3. of this rule. 
3. Additional requirements. If the department does not require corrective action under paragraph (4)(A)2. of this rule for a fecal indicator-positive source water sample collected under paragraph (3)(A)2. of this rule that is not invalidated under subsection (3)(D) of this rule, the system must collect five (5) additional source water samples from the same source within twenty-four (24) hours of being notified of the fecal indicator-positive sample. 
4. Consecutive systems. In addition to the other requirements of this subsection (3)(A), a consecutive ground water system that has a total coliform-positive sample collected under [10 CSR 60- 4.020(1) until March 31, 2016, or under] 10 CSR 60-4.022(4)- (7) [beginning April 1, 2016,] must notify the wholesale system(s) within twenty-four (24) hours of being notified of the total coliform- positive sample. 
5. Wholesale systems. In addition to the other requirements of this subsection (3)(A), a wholesale ground water system that receives notice from a consecutive system it serves that a sample collected under [10 CSR 60-4.020(1) until March 31, 2016, or collect- ed under] 10 CSR 60-4.022(4)-(7) [beginning April 1, 2016,] is total coliform-positive must, within twenty-four (24) hours of being notified, collect a sample from its ground water source(s) under paragraph (3)(A)2. of this rule and analyze it for a fecal indicator under subsection (3)(C) of this rule. If this sample is fecal indicator- positive, the system must notify all consecutive systems served by that ground water source of the fecal indicator source water positive within twenty-four (24) hours of being notified of the monitoring result and must meet the requirements of paragraph (3)(A)3. of this rule. 
6. Exceptions to triggered source water monitoring require- ments. A ground water system is not required to comply with the source water monitoring requirements of this subsection (3)(A) if either of the following conditions exists: 
A. The department determines, and documents in writing, that the total coliform-positive sample collected under [10 CSR 60- 4.020(1) until March 31, 2016, or under] 10 CSR 60-4.022(4)- (7) [beginning April 1, 2016,] is caused by a distribution system deficiency; or 
B. The total coliform-positive sample collected under [10 CSR 60-4.020(1) until March 31, 2016, or under] 10 CSR 60- 4.022(4)-(7) [beginning April 1, 2016,] is collected at a location that meets department criteria for distribution system conditions that will cause total coliform-positive samples. 
(C) Analytical Methods. 1. A ground water system subject to the source water monitor- 
ing requirements of subsection (3)(A) of this rule must collect a stan- dard sample volume of at least one hundred milliliters (100 mL) for 

Page 1810 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
fecal indicator analysis regardless of the fecal indicator or analytical method used. 
2. A ground water system must analyze all ground water source samples collected under subsection (3)(A) of this rule using one (1) of the analytical methods listed in the Environmental Protection Agency’s Code of Federal Regulations, 40 CFR 141.402, published February 13, 2013. This document is incorporated by reference without any later amendments or modifications. To obtain a copy, contact the U.S. Government Printing Office at 732 North Capitol Street NW, Washington D.C., 20401, toll free at (866)512-1800 or by visiting https://bookstore.gpo.gov. 
(4) Treatment Technique Requirements. (A) Ground Water Systems with Significant Deficiencies or Source 
Water Fecal Contamination. 1. The treatment technique requirements of this rule must be 
met by ground water systems when a significant deficiency is identi- fied or when a ground water source sample collected under para- graph (3)(A)3. of this rule is fecal indicator-positive. 
2. If directed by the department, a ground water system with a ground water source sample collected under paragraph (3)(A)3., paragraph (3)(A)4., or subsection (3)(B) that is fecal indicator-posi- tive must comply with the treatment technique requirements of this section (4). 
3. When a significant deficiency is identified at a public water system that uses both ground water and surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, the system must comply with provisions of this subsection (4)(A) except in cases where the department determines that the significant deficiency is in a portion of the distribution system that is served solely by surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water. 
4. Unless the department directs the ground water system to implement a specific corrective action, the ground water system must consult with the department regarding the appropriate corrective action within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice from the department of a significant deficiency, written notice from a labora- tory that a ground water source sample collected under paragraph (3)(A)3. of this rule was found to be fecal indicator-positive, or direction from the department that a fecal indicator-positive sample collected under paragraph (3)(A)2., paragraph (3)(A)4., or subsec- tion (3)(B) of this rule requires corrective action. For the purposes of this rule, significant deficiencies include but are not limited to defects in design, operation, or maintenance, or a failure or malfunc- tion of the sources, treatment, storage, or distribution system that the department determines are causing, or have potential for causing, the introduction of contamination into the water delivered to consumers. Such significant deficiencies may include, but may not be limited to, the following: 
A. For the source, any improperly constructed, sealed, or inadequately screened opening in the well head; 
B. For treatment— (I) Failure to perform and record the results of sufficient 
analyses to maintain control of treatment process or water quality; (II) Systems required to provide 4-log virus inactivation or removal that do not meet disinfection concentration and detention 
time requirements; or (III) Systems that are required to disinfect that do not have 
standby redundant disinfection facilities; C. For distribution systems— 
(I) The existence of a known unprotected cross-connection; 
(II) Widespread or persistent low pressure events as defined in 10 CSR 60-4.080[(9)](8); 
(III) Submerged automatic air release valves or uncapped manual air release valves; or 
(IV) Failure to properly disinfect new or newly-repaired water mains; 
D. For finished water storage— (I) The existence of any unprotected, inadequately protect- 
ed, or improperly constructed opening in a storage facility; or (II) Evidence that the water in the storage facility has been contaminated (for example, feathers or nesting materials in an over- 
flow pipe or positive bacteria samples); E. For pumps or pump facilities and controls, repeated or 
persistent low pressures caused by pump or pump control problems or inadequate pump capacity; 
F. For monitoring, reporting, or data verification— (I) Falsification of monitoring or reporting records; or (II) Failure to maintain system records required under 10 
CSR 60-9.010; G. For water system management or operations, failure to 
address significant deficiencies listed in the most recent inspection or sanitary survey report; and 
H. For operator compliance— (I) Lack of properly certified chief operator in responsible 
charge of the treatment facility as required under 10 CSR 60- 14.010(4); or 
(II) Lack of properly certified chief operator in responsible charge of the distribution facility as required under 10 CSR 60- 14.010(4). 
5. Within one hundred twenty (120) days (or earlier if directed by the department) of receiving written notification from the depart- ment of a significant deficiency, written notice from a laboratory that a ground water source sample collected under paragraph (3)(A)3. of this rule was found to be fecal indicator-positive, or direction from the department that a fecal indicator-positive sample collected under paragraph (3)(A)2., paragraph (3)(A)4., or subsection (3)(B) of this rule requires corrective action, the ground water system must either— 
A. Have completed corrective action in accordance with applicable department plan review processes or other department guidance or direction, if any, including department-specified interim measures; or 
B. Be in compliance with a department-approved corrective action plan and schedule subject to the following conditions: 
(I) Any subsequent modifications to a department- approved corrective action plan and schedule must be approved by the department; and 
(II) If the department specifies interim measures for pro- tection of the public health pending department approval of the cor- rective action plan and schedule or pending completion of the cor- rective action plan, the system must comply with these interim mea- sures as well as with any schedule specified by the department. 
6. Corrective action alternatives. Ground water systems that meet the conditions of paragraph (4)(A)1. or (4)(A)2. of this rule must implement one (1) or more of the following corrective action alternatives under the direction and approval of the department: 
A. Correct all significant deficiencies; B. Provide an alternate source of water; C. Eliminate the source of contamination; or D. Provide treatment that reliably achieves at least 4-log 
treatment of viruses before or at the first customer for the ground water source. 
7. Special notice to the public of significant deficiencies or source water fecal contamination. 
A. In addition to the applicable public notification require- ments of 10 CSR 60-8.010[(2)], a community ground water system that receives notice from the department of a significant deficiency or notification of a fecal indicator-positive ground water source sam- ple that is not invalidated by the department under subsection (3)(D) of this rule must inform the public served by the water system under 10 CSR 60-8.030(2)(H)6. of the fecal indicator-positive source sam- ple or of any significant deficiency that has not been corrected. The system must continue to inform the public annually until the signifi- cant deficiency is corrected or the fecal contamination in the ground water source is determined by the department to be corrected under paragraph (4)(A)5. of this rule. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1811 

B. In addition to the applicable public notification require- ments of 10 CSR 60-8.010, a non-community ground water system that receives notice from the department of a significant deficiency must inform the public served by the water system in a manner approved by the department of any significant deficiency that has not been corrected within twelve (12) months of being notified by the department, or earlier if directed by the department. The system must continue to inform the public annually until the significant defi- ciency is corrected. 
(I) The information must include: (a) The nature of the significant deficiency and the date 
the significant deficiency was identified by the department; (b) The department-approved plan and schedule for cor- rection of the significant deficiency, including interim measures, 
progress to date, and any interim measures completed; and (c) For systems with a large proportion of non-English speaking consumers, as determined by the department, information in the appropriate language(s) regarding the importance of the notice or a telephone number or address where consumers may contact the system to obtain a translated copy of the notice or assistance in the 
appropriate language. (II) If directed by the department, a non[-]community 
water system with significant deficiencies that have been corrected must inform its customers of the significant deficiencies, how the deficiencies were corrected, and the dates of correction. 
(B) Compliance Monitoring. 1. Existing ground water sources. A ground water system that 
is not required to meet the source water monitoring requirements of this rule for any ground water source because it provides at least 4- log treatment of viruses before or at the first customer for any ground water source before December 1, 2009, must notify the department in writing that it provides at least 4-log treatment of viruses before or at the first customer for the specified ground water source and begin compliance monitoring in accordance with paragraph (4)(B)3. of this rule by December 1, 2009. Notification to the department must include engineering, operational, or other information that the department requests to evaluate the submission. If the system subse- quently discontinues 4-log treatment of viruses before or at the first customer for a ground water source, the system must conduct ground water source monitoring as required under section (3) of this rule. 
2. New ground water sources. A ground water system that places a ground water source in service after November 30, 2009, that is not required to meet the source water monitoring requirements of this rule because the system provides at least 4-log treatment of viruses before or at the first customer for the ground water source must comply with the following: 
A. The system must notify the department in writing that it provides at least 4-log treatment of viruses before or at the first cus- tomer for the ground water source. Notification to the department must include engineering, operational, or other information that the department requests to evaluate the submission; 
B. The system must conduct compliance monitoring as required under paragraph (4)(B)3. of this rule within thirty (30) days of placing the source in service; and 
C. The system must conduct ground water source monitoring under section (3) of this rule if the system subsequently discontinues 4-log treatment of viruses before or at the first customer for the ground water source. 
3. Monitoring requirements. A ground water system subject to the requirements of subsection (4)(A), or paragraph (4)(B)1. or (4)(B)2. of this rule must monitor the effectiveness and reliability of treatment for that ground water source before or at the first customer as follows: 
A. Chemical disinfection. (I) A ground water system that serves greater than three 
thousand three hundred (3,300) people must continuously monitor the residual disinfectant concentration using analytical methods spec- ified in 10 CSR 60-5.010(5) at a location approved by the department 
and must record the lowest residual disinfectant concentration each day that water from the ground water source is served to the public. The ground water system must maintain the department-determined residual disinfectant concentration every day the ground water system serves water from the ground water source to the public. If there is a failure in the continuous monitoring equipment, the ground water system must conduct grab sampling every four (4) hours until the continuous monitoring equipment is returned to service. The system must resume continuous residual disinfectant monitoring within four- teen (14) days. 
(II) A ground water system that serves three thousand three hundred (3,300) or fewer people must monitor the residual disinfec- tant concentration using analytical methods specified in 10 CSR 60- 5.010(5) at a location approved by the department and record the residual disinfection concentration each day that water from the ground water source is served to the public. The ground water system must maintain the department-determined residual disinfectant con- centration every day the ground water system serves water from the ground water source to the public. The ground water system must take a daily grab sample during the hour of peak flow or at another time specified by the department. If any daily grab sample measure- ment falls below the department-determined residual disinfectant concentration, the ground water system must take follow-up samples every four (4) hours until the residual disinfectant concentration is restored to the department-determined level. Alternatively, a ground water system that serves three thousand three hundred (3,300) or fewer people may monitor continuously and meet the requirements in part (I) of this [subparargraph] subparagraph (4)(B)3.A. 
B. Membrane filtration. A ground water system that uses membrane filtration to meet the requirements of this rule must mon- itor the membrane filtration process in accordance with all depart- ment-specified monitoring requirements and must operate the mem- brane filtration in accordance with all department-specified compli- ance requirements. The department will consider the manufacturer’s recommendations and guidelines as well as standard industry prac- tices in setting monitoring and compliance requirements. A ground water system that uses membrane filtration is in compliance with the requirement to achieve at least 4-log removal of viruses when— 
(I) The membrane has an absolute molecular weight cut- off, or an alternate parameter that describes the exclusion character- istics of the membrane, that can reliably achieve at least 4-log removal of viruses; 
(II) The membrane process is operated in accordance with department-specified compliance requirements; and 
(III) The integrity of the membrane is intact. C. Alternative treatment. A ground water system that uses a department-approved alternative treatment to meet the requirements of this rule by providing at least 4-log treatment of viruses before or at the first customer must monitor the alternative treatment in accor- dance with all department-specified monitoring requirements and operate the alternative treatment in accordance with all compliance requirements that the department determines to be necessary to achieve at least 4-log treatment of viruses. The department will con- sider the manufacturer’s recommendations and guidelines as well as standard industry practices in setting monitoring and compliance 
requirements for the approved alternative treatment. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed April 14, 2010, effective Dec. 30, 2010. Amended: Filed Aug. 12, 2015, effective March 30, 2016. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 

Page 1812 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is sched- uled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-4.050 Maximum Turbidity Levels and Monitoring Requirements and Filter Backwash Recycling. The department is deleting compliance dates and applicable sunset requirements with resulting renumbering thereafter. Amending section (2)(C)1. and 2., amending section (2)(E)2., and combining deleted language from section (1)(B) and amending section (3)(A). 
PURPOSE: The amendment removes sunset compliance dates and updates regulation citations due to concurrent rulemakings. 
(1) Applicability. [(A)] This rule applies to all public water systems that use surface 
water or ground-water under the direct influence of surface water. 
[Requirements and compliance dates vary depending on sys- tem size.] 
[(B) Beginning on November 30, 2002, any water treat- ment plant proposed for construction or major modification must be designed to meet the filter backwash requirements in section (4) of this rule.] 
[(2) Systems Serving Less Than Ten Thousand (10,000) People. (Note: This section remains in effect only until January 13, 2005. Beginning January 14, 2005, the turbid- ity levels and other requirements in section (3) of this rule replace the requirements of this section.) 
(A) Maximum Turbidity Levels. 1. The turbidity level must be less than or equal to 0.5 
turbidity units in at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the measurements taken each month. 
2. The turbidity level must at no time exceed five (5) tur- bidity units in any one (1) confirmed measurement. 
(B) The frequency of sampling shall be as set forth in 10 CSR 60-4.080(3). 
(C) If the result of a single turbidity measurement exceeds the level established in subsection (2)(A), the measurement must be confirmed by resampling, preferably within one (1) hour. The resample result must replace the original sample result for determining compliance with subsection (2)(A) of this rule. 
(D) If any confirmed sample result exceeds five (5) turbid- ity units, the supplier of water must notify the department by the end of the next business day and give notice as required by 10 CSR 60-8.010(2). 
(E) The department, on a case-by-case basis, may allow a system to operate at a maximum turbidity level of 1.0 tur- bidity units in at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the mea- surements taken each month if the following criteria are met: the total percent removal and inactivation of Giardia lamblia is ninety-nine and nine-tenths percent (99.9%), required treatment is provided, the treatment facilities are properly 
operated, none of the treatment units are malfunctioning due to mechanical failure or incorrect construction, the system is in compliance with all of the disinfection requirements of 10 CSR 60-4.055(1)–(4), the treatment facilities are providing ninety-nine percent (99%) Giardia cyst removal and the sys- tem cannot meet the turbidity level of 0.5 turbidity units due to raw water quality, iron, manganese or similar compelling factors. The request to operate at the higher turbidity level must be made in writing and be accompanied by an engi- neering report which includes the results of full scale particle or Giardia cyst removal studies, operational test data, water analyses results, a report of the sanitary survey of the treat- ment facilities and any other information that the depart- ment may require to assure that the criteria of this rule are met. Approval of the engineering report is the approval to operate at the higher turbidity level.] 
[(3)](2) Enhanced Turbidity Requirements. [(A) Beginning January 1, 2002 for systems serving ten 
thousand (10,000) or more people and beginning January 14, 2005 for systems serving less than ten thousand (10,000) people maximum turbidity levels and other require- ments are as set forth in this section.] 
[(B)](A) Maximum Turbidity Levels. 1. Turbidity must be equal to or less than 0.3 turbidity units in 
at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the measurements taken each month; and 
2. There must be no more than one (1) turbidity unit in any one (1) measurement. 
[(C)](B) The frequency of sampling shall be as set forth in 10 CSR 60-4.080(3). 
[(D)](C) Reporting to the Department. 1. If at any time the turbidity exceeds one (1) nephelometric tur- 
bidity unit (NTU) in representative samples of filtered water in a sys- tem using conventional filtration treatment or direct filtration, the system must inform the department as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the next business day. 
[2. If any sample result exceeds five (5) turbidity units, the supplier of water must consult with the department as soon as practical, but no later than twenty-four (24) hours after the exceedance is known, except that the department may allow additional time in the event of extenuating circum- stances beyond the control of the owner or operator, such as a natural disaster.] 
[3.]2. If at any time the turbidity in representative samples of filtered water exceeds the maximum level set by the department under subsection [(3)(G)] (2)(F) of this rule for filtration technolo- gies other than conventional filtration treatment, the system must inform the department as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the next business day. 
[(E)](D) Filtration Sampling Requirements for Surface Water Systems 
1. A public water system [subject to the requirements of 10 CSR 60-4.055(6)] using surface water or groundwater under the direct influence of surface water that provides conventional fil- tration treatment must conduct continuous monitoring of turbidity for each individual filter using an approved method in 10 CSR 60-5.010 and must calibrate turbidimeters using the procedure specified by the manufacturer. Systems must record the results of individual filter monitoring every fifteen (15) minutes. 
2. If there is a failure in the continuous turbidity monitoring equipment, the system must conduct grab sampling every four (4) hours in lieu of continuous monitoring, until the turbidimeter is repaired and back on-line. A system has a maximum of five (5) work- ing days after failure in the continuous monitoring equipment to repair the equipment before the system is in violation. With depart- ment approval, systems serving less than ten thousand (10,000) peo- ple may be granted up to fourteen (14) days to repair the equipment 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1813 

before the system is in violation. [(F)](E) Lime Softening. 
1. A system that uses lime softening may acidify representative samples prior to analysis using a protocol approved by the depart- ment. 
2. Systems that use lime softening may apply to the department for alternative exceedance levels for the levels specified in 10 CSR 60-7.010[(7)](6)(B) if they can demonstrate that higher turbidity lev- els in individual filters are due to lime carryover only and not due to degraded filter performance. 
[(G)](F) Filtration Technologies Other Than Conventional Filtration Treatment. 
1. A public water system may use a filtration technology other than conventional filtration if it demonstrates to the department, using pilot plant studies or other means, that the alternative filtration technology, including direct filtration, in combination with disinfec- tion treatment that meets the requirements of 10 CSR 60-4.055, con- sistently achieves 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of Giardia lamblia cysts and 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses, and ninety-nine percent (99%) removal of Cryptosporidium oocysts, and the department approves the use of the filtration technology. 
2. For each approval, the department will set turbidity perfor- mance requirements that the system must meet at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the time and that the system may not exceed at any time at a level that consistently achieves 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of Giardia lamblia cysts, 99.99 percent removal or inac- tivation of viruses, or both, and 99 percent removal of Cryptosporidium oocysts. 
[(4)](3) Filter Backwash Recycling. (A) Applicability. [All surface water and groundwater under 
the direct influence of surface water systems that use con- ventional filtration or direct filtration treatment and that recy- cle spent filter backwash water, thickener supernatant, or liquids from dewatering processes must meet the require- ments of this section.] Any water treatment plant proposed for construction or major modification for a surface water or groundwater under the direct influence of surface water or direct filtration treatment and that will recycle spent filter backwash water, thickener supernatant, or liquids from dewatering processes must be designed to meet the filter backwash recycling requirements of this section. 
(B) Reporting. A system must notify the department in writing [by December 8, 2003,] if the system recycles spent filter backwash water, thickener supernatant, or liquids from dewatering processes. This notification must include, at a minimum, the following informa- tion: 
1. A plant schematic showing the origin of all flows which are recycled (including, but not limited to, spent filter backwash water, thickener supernatant, and liquids from dewatering processes), the hydraulic conveyance used to transport them, and the location where they are reintroduced back into the treatment plant; and 
2. Typical recycle flow in gallons per minute (gpm), the highest observed plant flow experienced in the previous year (gpm), design flow for the treatment plant (gpm), and department-approved operat- ing capacity for the plant where the department has made such deter- minations. 
(C)Treatment Technique Requirement. Any system that recycles spent filter backwash water, thickener supernatant, or liquids from dewatering processes must return these flows through the processes of a system’s existing conventional or direct filtration system or at an alternate location approved by the department [by June 8, 2004. If capital improvements are required to modify the recycle location to meet this requirement, all capital improvements must be completed not later than June 8, 2006]. 
(D) Record Keeping. The system must collect and retain on file recycle flow information for review and evaluation by the department 
[beginning June 8, 2004]. This information shall include, but may not be limited to: 
1. A copy of the recycle notification and information submitted to the department under subsection (4)(B) of this rule; 
2. A list of all recycle flows and the frequency with which they are returned; 
3. Average and maximum backwash flow rate through the filters and the average and maximum duration of the filter backwash process in minutes; 
4. Typical filter run length and a written summary of how filter run length is determined; 
5. The type of treatment provided for the recycle flow; and 
6. Data on the physical dimensions of the equalization and/or treatment units, typical and maximum hydraulic loading rates, type of treatment chemicals used and average dose and frequency of use, and frequency at which solids are removed, if applicable. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 2002] 2016. Original rule filed May 4, 1979, effective Sept. 14, 1979. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-4.052 Source Water Monitoring and Enhanced Treatment Requirements. The department is amending citations in (4)(D), (13)(B), (16)(A) and (B), and (18)(A) as part of concurrent rulemaking changes. 
PURPOSE: This amendment corrects regulation citations due to con- current rulemaking amendments in 10 CSR 60-4. 
(4) Sampling Locations. (D) Bank Filtration Requirements. 
1. Systems that receive Cryptosporidium treatment credit for bank filtration under 10 CSR 60-4.050[(3)(G)](2)(F) as applicable, must collect source water samples in the surface water prior to bank filtration. 
2. Systems that use bank filtration as pretreatment to a filtration plant must collect source water samples from the well (i.e., after bank filtration). Use of bank filtration during monitoring must be consistent with routine operational practice. Systems collecting sam- ples after a bank filtration process may not receive treatment credit for the bank filtration under subsection (15)(C) of this rule. 
(E) Multiple Sources. Systems with plants that use multiple water 

Page 1814 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
sources, including multiple surface water sources and blended sur- face water and ground water sources, must collect samples as speci- fied in paragraph (4)(E)1. or 2. of this rule. The use of multiple sources during monitoring must be consistent with routine opera- tional practice. 
1. If a sampling tap is available where the sources are combined prior to treatment, systems must collect samples from the tap. 
2. If a sampling tap where the sources are combined prior to treatment is not available, systems must collect samples at each source near the intake on the same day and must follow either sub- paragraph (4)(E)2.A. or B. of this rule for sample analysis. 
A. Systems may take composite samples from each source into one (1) sample prior to analysis. The volume of sample from each source must be weighted according to the proportion of the source in the total plant flow at the time the sample is collected. 
B. Systems may analyze samples from each source separately and calculate a weighted average of the analysis results for each sam- pling date. The weighted average must be calculated by multiplying the analysis result for each source by the fraction the source con- tributed to total plant flow at the time the sample was collected and then summing these values. 
(F) Additional Requirements. Systems must submit a description of their sampling location(s) to the department at the same time as the sampling schedule required under section (3) of this rule. This description must address the position of the sampling location in rela- tion to the system’s water source(s) and treatment processes, includ- ing pretreatment, points of chemical treatment, and filter backwash recycle. If the department does not respond to a system regarding sampling location(s), the system must sample at the reported loca- tion(s). 
(13) Microbial Toolbox Options for Meeting Cryptosporidium Treat- ment Requirements. 
(B) The following table summarizes options in the microbial tool- box: 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1815 
















[10] 


[95] 

[95] 




















Page 1816 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(16) Treatment Performance Toolbox Components. (A) Combined Filter Performance. Systems using conventional fil- 
tration treatment or direct filtration treatment receive an additional 0.5-log Cryptosporidium treatment credit during any month the sys- tem meets the criteria in this subsection. Combined filter effluent (CFE) turbidity must be less than or equal to 0.15 NTU in at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the measurements. Turbidity must be measured as described in 10 CSR 60-4.050[(3)](2) and 10 CSR 60- 4.080(3). 
(B) Individual Filter Performance. Systems using conventional fil- tration treatment or direct filtration treatment receive 0.5-log Cryptosporidium treatment credit, which can be in addition to the 0.5-log credit under subsection (16)(A) during any month the system meets the criteria in this subsection. Compliance with these criteria must be based on individual filter turbidity monitoring as described in 10 CSR 60-4.050[(3)(E)](2)(D) and 10 CSR 60-7.010[(7)](6). 
1. The filtered water turbidity for each individual filter must be less than or equal to 0.15 NTU in at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the measurements recorded each month. 
2. No individual filter may have a measured turbidity greater than 0.3 NTU in two (2) consecutive measurements taken fifteen (15) minutes apart. 
3. Any system that has received treatment credit for individual filter performance and fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (16)(B)1. or 2. of this rule during any month does not receive a treat- ment technique violation under subsection (11)(C) of this rule if the department determines the following: 
A. The failure was due to unusual and short-term circum- stances that could not reasonably be prevented through optimizing treatment plant design, operation, and maintenance; and 
B. The system has experienced no more than two (2) such failures in any calendar year. 
(18) Inactivation Toolbox Components. (A) Calculation of CT Values. 
1. CT is the product of the disinfectant contact time (T, in min- utes) and disinfectant concentration (C, in milligrams per liter). Systems with treatment credit for chlorine dioxide or ozone under subsection (18)(B) or (C) must calculate CT at least once each day, with both C and T measured during peak hourly flow as specified in 10 CSR 60-5.010, 10 CSR 60-5.020, and the Missouri Guidance Manual for Surface Water System Treatment Requirements, [January] 1992. 
2. Systems with several disinfection segments in sequence may calculate CT for each segment, where a disinfection segment is defined as a treatment unit process with a measurable disinfectant residual level and a liquid volume. Under this approach, systems must add the Cryptosporidium CT values in each segment to deter- mine the total CT for the treatment plant. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 2008] 2016. Original rule filed Feb. 27, 2009, effective Oct. 30, 2009. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is sched- 
uled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-4.055 Disinfection Requirements. The department is amending subsection (1)(E) due to concurrent rulemakings, remov- ing the sunset language in (4)(E), amending (5)(A), and removing the sunset compliance dates of subsection (5)(C), amending and remov- ing sunset compliance dates in section (6) along with updating cita- tions to 10 CSR 60-4.094, removing section (6)(C)1.A.I-II, and removing language in section (6)(C)1.B.I-II. 
PURPOSE: The amendment updates regulation citations due to con- current rulemakings and removes language that has sunset. 
(1) The requirements of this rule apply to primary community and noncommunity public water systems that the department has required to disinfect and to secondary systems with a source of water from a primary water system that the department has required to disinfect, even if the water is obtained through another secondary system. 
(E) Primary systems which use water obtained from groundwater not under the direct influence of surface water and which the depart- ment requires to disinfect and secondary public water systems do not have to meet the requirements of section (2) of this rule but may be required to provide disinfection detention as deemed necessary by the department. These systems also do not have to submit reports to the department as required by 10 CSR 60-7.010[(5)](4) but must main- tain the information on file at the system treatment plant or office. 
(2) Contact Time and Removal Credit. (D) Disinfectant contact time must be determined for each system 
by evaluations performed as specified in the Missouri Guidance Manual [F]for Surface Water System Treatment Requirements, 1992, which is incorporated by reference. Results of the evaluations, including the determined disinfectant contact times, must be submit- ted to the department for review. The evaluation must be submitted within one (1) year of the date that the system is covered by the requirements of this rule, except that new water treatment facilities will not be issued a Final Approval of Construction under 10 CSR 60-3.010 until disinfection contact times are determined and submit- ted to the department. 
(4) The residual disinfectant concentration in the distribution system measured as total chlorine or combined chlorine cannot be less than 0.2 mg/L in more than five percent (5%) of the samples each month for any two (2) consecutive months that the system supplies water to the public. 
(E) [Until March 31, 2016, the residual disinfectant con- centration must be measured at least at the same points in the distribution system and at the same time as total col- iforms are sampled as specified in 10 CSR 60-4.020. Beginning April 1, 2016, p]Public water systems that use chlorine or chloramines must measure the residual disinfectant level in the distribution system at the same point in the distribution system and at the same time as total coliforms are sampled, as specified in 10 CSR 60-4.022(4)-(8). Failure to comply with this subsection is a monitoring violation which requires public notification as specified in 10 CSR 60-8.010. 
(5) Maximum Residual Disinfectant Levels. (A) Maximum residual disinfectant levels (MRDL) applicable to 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1817 

all community and nontransient noncommunity water systems using chlorine, chloramines or chlorine dioxide and to all tran- sient noncommunity water systems using chlorine dioxide are— 
of this rule if it meets the applicable filtration requirements in 10 CSR 60-4.050 and the disinfection requirements in sections (2)–(4) and subsection (6)(C) of this rule. 
(C) Disinfection Profiling and Benchmarking. 1. Disinfection profile. A disinfection profile is a summary of 
Giardia lamblia inactivation through the treatment plant measured through the course of a year. A public water system subject to the requirements of this section (6) must determine its total tri- halomethanes (TTHM) annual average and its HAA5 annual average. The annual average is the arithmetic average of the quarterly averages of four (4) consecutive quarters of monitoring. [Surface water sys- tems serving fewer than ten thousand (10,000) people must determine the arithmetic average based on samples collect- ed after January 1, 1998.] If the annual average exceeds the lev- els in subparagraph (6)(C)1.D. then the requirements in paragraph (6)(C)2. apply. 
A. The TTHM annual average must be the annual average during the same period as is used for the HAA5 annual average. 
[(I) Those systems that use “grandfathered” HAA5 occurrence data that meet the provisions of part (5)(C)1.B.(I) of this rule must use TTHM data collected at the same time under the provisions of 10 CSR 60-4.090. 
(II) Those systems that use HAA5 occurrence data that meet the provisions of subpart (6)(C)1.B.(II)(a) of this rule must use TTHM data collected at the same time under the provisions of 10 CSR 60-4.090.] 
B. The HAA5 annual average must be the annual average dur- ing the same period as is used for the TTHM annual average. 
(I) Those systems that have collected four (4) quarters of HAA5 occurrence data that meets the routine monitoring sample number and location requirements for TTHM in [10 CSR 60- 4.090 and handling and analytical method requirements of 40 CFR 141.142] 10 CSR 60-4.094 may use those data to deter- mine whether the requirements of this section apply. 
(II) Those systems that did not collect four (4) quarters of HAA5 occurrence data that meets the provisions of part (6)(C)1.B.(I) of this rule by March 31, 2000 must either: 
(a) Conduct monitoring for HAA5 that meets the routine monitoring sample number and location requirements for TTHM in [10 CSR 60-4.090(2) and handling and analytical method requirements of 40 CFR 141.142(b)(1)] 10 CSR 60-4.094 to determine the HAA5 annual average and whether the requirements of paragraph (6)(C)2. of this rule apply; or 
(b) Comply with all other provisions of this section as if the HAA5 monitoring had been conducted and the results required compliance with paragraph (6)(C)2. of this rule. 
C. The system must submit data to the department on the schedule required by the department. 
D. Any system having either a TTHM annual average greater than or equal to 0.064 mg/L or an HAA5 annual average greater than or equal to 0.048 mg/L during the period identified in subparagraphs (6)(C)1.A. and B. of this rule must comply with paragraph (6)(C)2. of this rule. 
2. Disinfection profiling requirements and compliance dates vary depending on system size. Surface water and groundwater under the direct influence of surface water systems serving a pop- ulation of [less] more than ten thousand (10,000) must monitor profiling data according to subparagraph (6)(C)2.B. through (6)(C)2.C. Surface water and groundwater under the direct influ- ence of surface water systems serving a population of less than ten thousand (10,000) must monitor profiling data according to sub- paragraph (6)(C)2.D. [beginning July 1, 2003. Surface water and groundwater under the direct influence of surface water (GWUDISW) systems serving a population of less than five hundred (500) must monitor profiling data according to sub- paragraph (6)(C)2.D. beginning January 1, 2004.] 
A. Any system that meets the criteria in subparagraph (6)(C)1.D. of this rule must develop a disinfection profile of its dis- infection practice for a period of up to three (3) years. 
Disinfectant Residual 
Chlorine Chloramines Chlorine dioxide 
MRDL (mg/L) 
4.0 (as Cl2) 4.0 (as Cl2) 0.8 (as ClO2) 

[(C) Compliance Dates. 1. Community water systems and nontransient noncom- 
munity water systems. A. Systems serving ten thousand (10,000) or more 
persons and using surface water or groundwater under the direct influence of surface water must comply with the MRDLs beginning January 1, 2002. 
B. Systems serving fewer than ten thousand (10,000) persons and using surface water or groundwater under the direct influence of surface water and systems using only groundwater not under the direct influence of surface water must comply with the MRDLs beginning January 1, 2004. 
2. Transient noncommunity water systems. A. Systems serving ten thousand (10,000) or more persons and using surface water or groundwater under the direct influence of surface water and using chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant must comply with the chlorine 
dioxide MRDL beginning January 1, 2002. B. Systems serving less than ten thousand (10,000) 
persons, using surface water or groundwater under the direct influence of surface water and using chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant, and systems using only ground- water not under the direct influence of surface water and using chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant, must comply with the chlorine dioxide MRDL beginning January 1, 2004.] 
(6) Enhanced Disinfection Requirements. [Enhanced disinfection requirements and compliance dates vary depending on sys- tem size.] 
(A) [Compliance Dates.] In addition to the requirements in sec- tions (1)–(4) of this rule, surface water and groundwater under the direct influence of surface water systems [serving at least ten thousand (10,000) people also] must comply with the require- ments in this section [beginning January 1, 2002 unless other- wise specified. Those systems serving less than ten thou- sand (10,000) people must comply with the requirements in this section beginning January 14, 2005 unless otherwise specified]. 
(B) General Requirements. 1. This section (6) establishes or extends treatment technique 
requirements in lieu of maximum contaminant levels for the follow- ing contaminants: Giardia lamblia, viruses, heterotrophic plate count bacteria, Legionella, Cryptosporidium, and turbidity. Each surface water and groundwater under the direct influence of surface water system[, including those serving less than ten thousand (10,000) people beginning January 14, 2005,] must provide treatment of its source water that complies with these treatment tech- nique requirements and are in addition to those identified in sections (1)–(4) of this rule. The treatment technique requirements consist of installing and properly operating water treatment processes which reliably achieve: 
A. At least ninety-nine percent (99%) (2-log) removal of Cryptosporidium between a point where the raw water is not subject to recontamination by surface water runoff and a point downstream before or at the first customer; and 
B. Compliance with the profiling and benchmark require- ments under the provisions of subsection (6)(C) of this rule. 
2. A public water system subject to the requirements of this sec- tion (6) is in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (6)(B)1. 

Page 1818 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
B. The system must monitor daily for a period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months to determine the total logs of inactiva- tion for each day of operation, based on the CT99.9 values in Tables 1 through 8 of the Missouri Guidance Manual for Surface Water System Treatment Requirements, 1992, as appropriate, through the entire treatment plant. This system must begin this monitoring when requested by the department. As a minimum, the system with a single point of disinfectant application prior to entrance to the distribution system must conduct the monitoring set forth in this subparagraph (6)(C)2.B. A system with more than one (1) point of disinfectant application must conduct this monitoring for each disinfection seg- ment. The system must monitor the parameters necessary to deter- mine the total inactivation ratio, using analytical methods in 10 CSR 60-5.010, as follows: 
(I) The temperature of the disinfected water must be mea- sured once per day at each residual disinfectant concentration sam- pling point during peak hourly flow; 
(II) If the system uses chlorine, the pH of the disinfected water must be measured once per day at each chlorine residual dis- infectant concentration sampling point during peak hourly flow; 
(III) The disinfectant contact time(s) must be determined for each day during peak hourly flow; and 
(IV) The residual disinfectant concentration(s) of the water before or at the first customer and prior to each additional point of disinfection must be measured each day during peak hourly flow. 
C. In lieu of the monitoring conducted under the provisions of subparagraph (6)(C)2.B. of this rule to develop the disinfection profile the system may elect to meet the requirements of part (6)(C)2.C.(I) of this rule. In addition to the monitoring conducted under the provisions of subparagraph (6)(C)2.B. of this rule to devel- op the disinfection profile, the system may elect to meet the require- ments of part (6)(C)2.C.(II) of this rule. 
(I) A PWS that has three (3) years of existing operational data may submit those data, a profile generated using those data, and a request that the department approve use of those data in lieu of monitoring under the provisions of paragraph (6)(C)2. of this rule. The department must determine whether these operational data are substantially equivalent to data collected under the provisions of sub- paragraph (6)(C)2.B. of this rule. These data must also be represen- tative of Giardia lamblia inactivation through the entire treatment plant and not just of certain treatment segments. Until the department approves this request, the system is required to conduct monitoring under the provisions of subparagraph (6)(C)2.B. of this rule. 
(II) In addition to the disinfection profile generated under subparagraph (6)(C)2.B. of this rule, a PWS that has existing opera- tional data may use those data to develop a disinfection profile for additional years. Such systems may use these additional yearly disin- fection profiles to develop a benchmark under the provisions of para- graph (6)(C)3. of this rule. The department will determine whether these operational data are substantially equivalent to data collected under the provisions of subparagraph (6)(C)2.B. of this rule. These data must also be representative of inactivation through the entire treatment plant and not just of certain treatment segments. 
D. The system must monitor once per week on the same cal- endar day, for a period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months, to determine the total logs of inactivation for each week of operation, based on the CT99.9 values in Tables 1 through 8 of the Missouri Guidance Manual for Surface Water System Treatment Requirements, 1992, as appropriate, through the entire treatment plant. As a min- imum, the system with a single point of disinfectant application prior to entrance to the distribution system must conduct the monitoring set forth in this subparagraph. A system with more than one (1) point of disinfectant application must conduct this monitoring for each dis- infection segment. The system must monitor the parameters neces- sary to determine the total inactivation ratio, using analytical meth- ods in 10 CSR 60-5.010, as follows: 
(I) The temperature of the disinfected water must be mea- sured at each residual disinfectant concentration sampling point dur- 
ing peak hourly flow; (II) If the system uses chlorine, the pH of the disinfected 
water must be measured at each chlorine residual disinfectant con- centration sampling point during peak hourly flow; 
(III) The disinfectant contact time(s) must be determined during peak hourly flow; and 
(IV) The residual disinfectant concentration(s) of the water before or at the first customer and prior to each additional point of disinfection must be measured during peak hourly flow. 
E. The system must calculate the total inactivation ratio as follows: 
(I) The system may determine the total inactivation ratio for the disinfection segment based on either of the following meth- ods: 
(a) Determine one (1) inactivation ratio (CTcalc/CT99.9) before or at the first customer during peak hourly flow; or 
(b) Determine successive (CTcalc/CT99.9) values, repre- senting sequential inactivation ratios, between the point of disinfec- tant application and a point before or at the first customer during peak hourly flow. Under this alternative, the system must calculate the total inactivation ratio by determining (CTcalc/CT99.9) for each sequence and then adding the (CTcalc/CT99.9) values together to determine (å(CTcalc/CT99.9)); and 
(II) The system must determine the total logs of inactiva- tion by multiplying the value calculated in part (6)(C)2.D.(I) of this rule by three (3.0). 
F. A system that uses either chloramines or ozone for primary disinfection must also calculate the logs of inactivation for viruses using a method identified in [EPA’s] the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Water document, Alternative Disinfectants and Oxidants Guidance Manual, Volume 99 Issue 14 of EPA 815-R, published April 1999. This document is incorporated by reference without any later amendments or modifications. To obtain a copy, contact the U.S. Government Printing Office at 732 North Capitol Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20401, toll free (866)512-1800 or by visiting https://book- store.gpo.gov. 
G. The system must retain disinfection profile data in graphic form, as a spreadsheet, or in some other format acceptable to the department for review as part of sanitary surveys conducted by the department. 
3. Disinfection benchmarking. A. Any system required to develop a disinfection profile 
under the provisions of paragraphs (6)(C)1. and 2. of this rule and that decides to make a significant change to its disinfection practice must consult with the department in writing prior to making such change. Significant changes to disinfection practice are: 
plant; 
(I) Changes to the point of disinfection; (II) Changes to the disinfectant(s) used in the treatment 
(III) Changes to the disinfection process; and 
(IV) Any other modification identified by the department. B. Any system that is modifying its disinfection practice must calculate its disinfection benchmark using one (1) of the follow- 
ing procedures: (I) For each year of profiling data collected and calculated 
under paragraph (6)(C)2. of this rule, the system must determine the lowest average monthly Giardia lamblia inactivation in each year of profiling data. The system must determine the average Giardia lam- blia inactivation for each calendar month for each year of profiling data by dividing the sum of Giardia lamblia inactivation by the num- ber of values calculated for that month; or 
(II) The disinfection benchmark is the lowest monthly aver- age value (for systems with one (1) year of profiling data) or average of lowest monthly average values (for systems with more than one (1) year of profiling data) of the monthly logs of Giardia lamblia inacti- vation in each year of profiling data. 
C. A system that uses either chloramines or ozone for prima- ry disinfection must also calculate the disinfection benchmark for 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1819 

viruses using a method approved by the department. D. The system must submit the following information to the 
department as part of its consultation process: (I) A description of the proposed change; (II) The disinfection profile for Giardia lamblia (and, if 
necessary, viruses) under paragraph (6)(C)2. of this rule and bench- mark as required by subparagraph (6)(C)3.B. of this rule; and 
(III) An analysis of how the proposed change will affect the current levels of disinfection. 
(D) Filtration Sampling Requirements. A public water system subject to the requirements of this section (6) that provides conven- tional filtration treatment must conduct continuous monitoring of tur- bidity for each individual filter as indicated in 10 CSR 60- 4.050[(3)(E)](2)(D)1. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed July 12, 1991, effective Feb. 6, 1992. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-4.060 Maximum Radionuclide Contaminant Levels and Monitoring Requirements. The department is moving language from section (1) to subsection (1)(E) and removing sunset language, deleting sunset language in (2)(A)4.A.–B., and renumbering there- after, incorporating a document by reference. 
PURPOSE: This amendment will remove language that has sunset and incorporates a document by reference. 
(1) Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCL) [and Compliance Dates]. 
(C) MCL for Beta Particle and Photon Radioactivity. 1. The average annual concentration of beta particle and photon radioactivity from man-made radionuclides in drinking water must not produce an annual dose equivalent to the total body or any inter- 
nal organ greater than four (4) millirem/year (mrem/year). 2. Except for the radionuclides listed in Table A, the concentra- tion of man-made radionuclides causing four (4) mrem total body or organ dose equivalents must be calculated on the basis of two (2) liter per day drinking water intake using the one hundred sixty-eight (168) hour data list in “Maximum Permissible Body Burdens and Maximum Permissible Concentrations of Radionuclides in Air and in Water for Occupational Exposure,” NBS (National Bureau of 
Standards) Handbook 69 as amended August 1963, U.S. Department of Commerce, which is incorporated by reference without any later editions or modifications. If two (2) or more radionuclides are pre- sent, the sum of their annual dose equivalent to the total body or to any organ shall not exceed four (4) mrem/year. 
Table A.—Average Annual Concentrations Assumed to Produce a Total Body or Organ Dose of Mrem/Year 

Radionuclide 
Tritium Strontium-90 
Critical Organ 
Total body Bone Marrow 
pCi per Liter 
20,000 8 
 
(E) Compliance Dates. Community water systems (CWSs) must comply with the MCLs listed in subsections (1)(A)–(D) of this rule [beginning December 8, 2003]. Compliance shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of 10 CSR 60-5.010 and section (2) of this rule. [Compliance with Consumer Confidence Report and public notice requirements for radionuclides is required on December 8, 2003.] 
(2) Monitoring Frequency and Compliance Requirements for Radionuclides in Community Water Systems. 
(A) Monitoring and Compliance Requirements for Gross Alpha Particle Activity, Radium-226, Radium-228, and Uranium. 
1. Community water systems must conduct initial monitoring to determine compliance with subsections (1)(A), (B) and (D) of this rule [by December 31, 2007]. For the purposes of monitoring for gross alpha particle activity, radium-226, and radium-228, the detec- tion limits are: 
A. The detection limit for gross alpha particle activity is three (3) pCi/L; 
B. The detection limit for radium-226 is one (1) pCi/L; and 
C. The detection limit for radium-228 is one (1) pCi/L. 2. Applicability and sampling location for existing community water systems or sources. All existing CWSs using groundwater, sur- face water, or systems using both ground and surface water must sample at every entry point to the distribution system that is repre- sentative of all sources being used (hereafter called a sampling point) under normal operating conditions. The system must take each sam- ple at the sample sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source [or the depart- ment has designated a distribution system location, in accor- 
dance with part (2)(A)4.B.(III) of this rule]. 3. Applicability and sampling location for new community 
water systems or sources. All new CWSs or CWSs that use a new source of water must begin to conduct initial monitoring for the new source within the first quarter after initiating use of the source. CWSs must conduct more frequent monitoring when ordered by the department in the event of possible contamination or when changes in the distribution system or treatment processes occur which may increase the concentration of radioactivity in finished water. 
4. Initial monitoring for gross alpha particle activity, radium- 226, radium-228, and uranium. 
[A. Systems without acceptable historical data, as defined below, shall collect four (4) consecutive quarterly samples at all sampling points before December 31, 2007. 
B. Grandfathering of data. Systems may use historical monitoring data collected at a sampling point to satisfy the initial monitoring requirements for that sampling point, for the following situations. 
(I) To satisfy initial monitoring requirements, a com- munity water system having only one (1) entry point to the distribution system may use the monitoring data from the last compliance monitoring period that began between June 1, 2000 and December 8, 2003. 
(II) To satisfy initial monitoring requirements, a com- munity water system with multiple entry points and having appropriate historical monitoring data for each entry point to 

Page 1820 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
the distribution system may use the monitoring data from the last compliance monitoring period that began between June 1, 2000 and December 8, 2003. 
(III) To satisfy initial monitoring requirements, a community water system with appropriate historical data for a representative point in the distribution system may use the monitoring data from the last compliance monitoring period that began between June 1, 2000 and December 8, 2003, provided that the department finds that the historical data satisfactorily demonstrate that each entry point to the distri- bution system is expected to be in compliance based upon the historical data and reasonable assumptions about the variability of contaminant levels between entry points. The department must make a written finding indicating how the data conforms to the these requirements.] 
[C.]A. For gross alpha particle activity, uranium, radium- 226, and radium-228 monitoring, the department will waive the final two (2) quarters of initial monitoring for a sampling point if the results of the samples from the previous two (2) quarters are below the detection limit. 
[D.]B. If the average of the initial monitoring results for a sampling point is above the MCL, the system must collect and ana- lyze quarterly samples at that sampling point until the system has results from four (4) consecutive quarters that are at or below the MCL, unless the system enters into another schedule as part of a for- mal compliance agreement with the department. 
[3.]5. Reduced monitoring. Community water systems may reduce the future frequency of monitoring from once every three (3) years to once every six (6) or nine (9) years at each sampling point, based on the following criteria. 
A. If the average of the initial monitoring results for each contaminant (that is, gross alpha particle activity, uranium, radium- 226, or radium-228) is below the detection limit specified in para- graph (2)(A)1. of this rule, the system must collect and analyze for that contaminant using at least one (1) sample at that sampling point every nine (9) years. 
B. For gross alpha particle activity and uranium, if the aver- age of the initial monitoring results for each contaminant is at or above the detection limit but at or below one-half (1/2) the MCL, the system must collect and analyze for that contaminant using at least one (1) sample at that sampling point every six (6) years. For com- bined radium-226 and radium-228, the analytical results must be combined. If the average of the combined initial monitoring results for radium-226 and radium-228 is at or above the detection limit but at or below one-half (1/2) the MCL, the system must collect and ana- lyze for that contaminant using at least one (1) sample at that sam- pling point every six (6) years. 
C. For gross alpha particle activity and uranium, if the aver- age of the initial monitoring results for each contaminant is above one-half (1/2) the MCL but at or below the MCL, the system must collect and analyze at least one (1) sample at that sampling point every three (3) years. For combined radium-226 and radium-228, the analytical results must be combined. If the average of the combined initial monitoring results for radium-226 and radium-228 is above one-half (1/2) the MCL but at or below the MCL, the system must collect and analyze at least one (1) sample at that sampling point every three (3) years. 
D. Systems must use the samples collected during the reduced monitoring period to determine the monitoring frequency for subsequent monitoring periods (for example, if a system’s sampling point is on a nine (9)-year monitoring period, and the sample result is above one-half (1/2) the MCL, then the next monitoring period for that sampling point is three (3) years). 
E. If a system has a monitoring result that exceeds the MCL while on reduced monitoring, the system must collect and analyze quarterly samples at that sampling point until the system has results from four (4) consecutive quarters that are below the MCL, unless the system enters into another schedule as part of a formal compli- 
ance agreement with the department. [4.]6. Compositing. To fulfill quarterly monitoring require- 
ments for gross alpha particle activity, radium-226, radium-228, or uranium, a system may composite up to four (4) consecutive quarter- ly samples from a single entry point if analysis is done within a year of the first sample. The department will treat analytical results from the composited as the average analytical result to determine compli- ance with the MCLs and the future monitoring frequency. If the ana- lytical result from the composited sample is greater than one-half (1/2) the MCL, the department may direct the system to take addi- tional quarterly samples before allowing the system to sample under a reduced monitoring schedule. 
[5.]7. Gross alpha particle activity measurement. A. A gross alpha particle activity measurement may be sub- stituted for the required radium-226 measurement provided that the measured gross alpha particle activity does not exceed five (5) pCi/L. A gross alpha particle activity measurement may be substitut- ed for the required uranium measurement provided that the measured 
gross alpha particle activity does not exceed fifteen (15) pCi/L. B. The gross alpha measurement shall have a confidence interval of ninety-five percent (95%) (1.65s, where s is the standard deviation of the net counting rate of the sample) for radium-226 and uranium. When a system uses a gross alpha particle activity measure- ment in lieu of a radium-226 and/or uranium measurement, the gross alpha particle activity analytical result will be used to determine the future monitoring frequency for radium-226 and/or uranium. If the gross alpha particle activity result is less than detection, one-half (1/2) the detection limit will be used to determine compliance and 
the future monitoring frequency. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed May 4, 1979, effective Sept. 14, 1979. Amended: Filed April 14, 1981, effective Oct. 11, 1981. Rescinded and readopted: Filed Jan. 16, 2002, effective Nov. 30, 2002. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is sched- uled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-4.080 Operational Monitoring. The department is removing language from the Editor’s Note and incorporating a doc- ument by reference in 10 CSR 60-2.015 (2)(M)8; amending section (3); updating and replacing the Operational Testing chart and format with a new chart; removing sections (4) and (10) and renumbering thereafter; and amending section (9). 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1821 

PURPOSE: The amendment removes the Editor’s Note for documents incorporated by reference, reduces some monitoring frequency requirements for public water systems and removes language that is redundant of section 640.120.5, RSMo. 
[Editor’s Note: The following material is incorporated into this rule by reference: 
1) Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes, Revised March 1983 (Springfield VA: U.S. Department of Commerce, 1983; 2) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 18th Edition (Baltimore, MD, Victor Graphics, Inc., 1992). 
In accordance with section 536.013(4), RSMo, the full text of material incorporated by reference will be made available to any interested person at the Office of the Secretary of State and the headquarters of the adopting state agency.] 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: The secretary of state has determined that the publication of the entire text of the material which is incorporated by reference as a portion of this rule would be unduly cumbersome or expensive. This material as incorporated by reference in this rule shall be maintained by the agency at its headquarters and shall be made available to the public for inspection and copying at no more than the actual cost of reproduction. This note applies only to the ref- erence material. The entire text of the rule is printed here. 
(2) Automatic instrumentation may be used if properly installed, maintained and periodically calibrated against known standards pre- pared in accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater 1992, [American Public Health Association, 18th edition , New York, NY] 18th edition, or Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes, [Environmental Monitoring Support Laboratory, USEPA, Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA-600/4-79-020.] published in March 1983 by the Environmental Protection Agency’s (MCAWW, Section 9.3, EPA/600/479/020, Cincinnati, OH). This document is incorporated by reference without any later amend- ments or modifications. To obtain a copy, contact the U.S. Government Printing Office at 732 North Capitol Street NW, Washington, D.C., 20401, toll free at (866)512-1800 or by visiting https://bookstore.gpo.gov. 
(3) Sufficient analyses must be done to assure control of water qual- ity, the following requirements notwithstanding. Continuous moni- toring and recording may be used for any operational analysis instead of grab sampling provided that the requirements of section (2) are met. For those analyses where continuous monitoring is required, if there is a failure in the continuous monitoring equipment, grab sam- pling every [two (2)] four (4) hours of operation may be conducted in lieu of continuous monitoring but for no more than five (5) work- ing days following the failure of the equipment. Applicable analyses and testing frequencies are as follows: 

Page 1822 

Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
         







       

 

   








     


   

       


       



       



       





       




       




       




       





       


 


     





       






       




       




       




       



     
                  
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1823 







 


































 
		   
		   
		   
		    
		   
		   
		    
		   
		   
[(4) The department, at its discretion, may conduct routine inspections of any public water system or make other nec- essary inspections to determine compliance with these rules.] 
[(5)](4) If, after investigation, the department finds that any public water system is incompetently supervised, improperly operated, inadequate, of defective design or if the water fails to meet standards established in these rules, the water supplier must implement changes that may be required by the department. 
[(6)](5) Every supplier of water to a public water system must disin- fect all newly constructed or repaired water distribution mains, fin- ished water storage facilities or wells by methods acceptable to the department before being placed in or returned to service. 
[(7)](6) All finished water reservoirs must be covered by a perma- nent, protective material, adequately vented with properly screened openings. 
[(8)](7) Chemicals, materials and protective coatings used in public water systems must be acceptable to the department. 
[(9)](8) Public water systems must maintain a minimum positive pressure of twenty pounds per square inch (20 psi) throughout the distribution system under all normal operating conditions. 
[(10) Within thirty (30) days, public water systems must inform the department of a change of the person in charge of the water system.] 
[(11)](9) A supplier of water that adds fluoride to the water system must submit [two (2) samples per month] one (1) sample per quarter for analyses to [the Department of Health Laboratory or another] an approved laboratory. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [1994] 2016. Original rule filed May 4, 1979, effective Sept. 14, 1979. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment 

Page 1824 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is sched- uled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
10 CSR 60-4.090 Maximum Contaminant Levels and Monitoring Requirements for Disinfection By-Products. This rule established the maximum contaminant levels and monitoring requirements for total trihalomethanes and other disinfection by-products. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the requirements for com- plying with this rule are set forth in 10 CSR 60-4.094. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo Supp. 2008. Original rule filed April 14, 1981, effective Oct. 11, 1981. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-4.094 Disinfectant Residuals, Disinfection Byproduct Precursors and the Stage 2 Disinfectants/Disinfection [By-Prod- ucts] Byproducts Rule. The department is amending the title by cor- recting the word “byproducts” and everywhere thereafter, adding subpart L in the purpose statement, deleting sunset language from section (1)(C), moving subsections (1)(D) through (1)(E) to para- graphs (3)(A)5.–7., deleting sunset language from section (2), renumbering thereafter, moving the Routine Monitoring table from paragraph (2)(A)2. to (2)(C)2., adding language in subsection (1)(C) and continuing in subsections (2)(A), (2)(B), and (2)(C). The term “you” is being replaced to indicate the “system” as applicable start- ing in subparagraph (2)(C)1.A. Subsection (2)(B) is being deleted with renumbering thereafter. Parts (2)(C)1.B.(II) through subpara- graph (2)(C)1.D. removes sunset language, adding language, and a correct citation. Moving subparagraph (2)(C)1.E., amending para- graphs (2)(C)3. Reduced Monitoring and (2)(C)4. Increased Monitoring, amending language in subsections (3)(A) through (3)(D), the Operational Evaluation Levels in subsection (3)(E) is 
amended, and deleting language in sections (8) and (9) with the renumbering of section (10) to subsection (3)(F). 
PURPOSE: The amendment corrects the purpose statement, removes language that has sunset, moves sections of 10 CSR 60-4.090 which is proposed to be rescinded, removes redundant language found in 10 CSR 60-5.010, adds clarifying language and corrects citations to other regulations. 
PURPOSE: This rule establishes monitoring and other requirements for achieving compliance with maximum contaminant levels based on locational running annual averages for certain disinfection [by- products] byproducts and for achieving compliance with maximum residual disinfectant levels for chlorine and chloramine for certain consecutive systems. This rule incorporates the requirements of sub- parts L and V of 40 CFR part 141, Stage 2 Disinfectants/Disinfection [By-Products] Byproducts, published in the January 4, 2006, Federal Register. 
(1) Stage 2 Disinfectants/Disinfection [By-Products] Byproducts (D/DBP) Rule General Requirements. 
[(C) Compliance Schedules. 1. Systems must comply with the requirements in this 
rule on the following schedule. The department may grant up to an additional twenty-four (24) months beyond the dead- lines specified below for compliance with maximum conta- minant levels (MCL) and operational evaluation levels if cap- ital improvements are required to comply with an MCL. 
A. Systems that are not part of a combined distribu- tion system and systems that serve the largest population in the combined distribution system. 
(I) Systems serving ≥ 100,000 population must comply with this rule by April 1, 2012. 
(II) Systems serving 50,000–99,999 population must comply with this rule by October 1, 2012. 
(III) Systems serving 10,000–49,999 population must comply with this rule by October 1, 2013. 
(IV) Systems serving <10,000 population must comply with this rule by October 1, 2013, if no Cryptosporidium monitoring is required under 10 CSR 60- 4.052(2)(A)4. or October 1, 2014, if Cryptosporidium mon- itoring is required under 10 CSR 60-4.052(2)(A)4. 
B. Other systems that are part of a combined distrib- ution system. Consecutive system or wholesale system must comply with this rule at the same time as the system with the earliest compliance date in the combined distribu- tion system. 
2. Monitoring frequency is specified in paragraph (2)(A)2. of this rule. 
A. If you are required to conduct quarterly monitoring, you must begin monitoring in the first full calendar quarter that includes the applicable compliance date in paragraph (1)(C)1. of this rule. 
B. If you are required to conduct monitoring at a fre- quency that is less than quarterly, you must begin monitor- ing in the calendar month recommended in the Initial Distribution System Evaluation (IDSE) report prepared under Standard Monitoring or the System Specific studies in 40 CFR part 141 subpart U, incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 60-4.092, or the calendar month identified in the mon- itoring plan developed under section (3) of this rule no later than twelve (12) months after the compliance date in this table. 
3. If you are required to conduct quarterly monitoring, you must make compliance calculations at the end of the fourth calendar quarter that follows the compliance date and at the end of each subsequent quarter (or earlier if the LRAA calcu- lated based on fewer than four (4) quarters of data would cause the MCL to be exceeded regardless of the monitoring 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1825 

results of subsequent quarters). If you are required to con- duct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly, you must make compliance calculations beginning with the first compliance sample taken after the compliance date. 
4. For the purpose of the schedule in paragraph (1)(C)1. of this rule, the department may determine that the com- bined distribution system does not include certain consecu- tive systems based on factors such as receiving water from a wholesale system only on an emergency basis or receiving only a small percentage and small volume of water from a wholesale system. The department may also determine that the combined distribution system does not include certain wholesale systems based on factors such as delivering water to a consecutive system only on an emergency basis or delivering only a small percentage and small volume of water to a consecutive system. 
(D) Monitoring and Compliance. 1. Systems required to monitor quarterly. To comply 
with MCLs in section 10 CSR 60-4.090(1)(D) you must cal- culate LRAAs for TTHM and HAA5 using monitoring results collected under this rule and determine that each LRAA does not exceed the MCL. If you fail to complete four (4) consec- utive quarters of monitoring, you must calculate compliance with the MCL based on the average of the available data from the most recent four (4) quarters. If you take more than one (1) sample per quarter at a monitoring location, you must average all samples taken in the quarter at that location to determine a quarterly average to be used in the LRAA cal- culation. 
2. Systems required to monitor yearly or less frequently. To determine compliance with the Stage 2 D/DBP MCLs in subsection 10 CSR 60-4.090(1)(D), you must determine that each sample taken is less than the MCL. If any sample exceeds the MCL, you must comply with the requirements of section (6) of this rule. If no sample exceeds the MCL, the sample result for each monitoring location is considered the LRAA for that monitoring location. 
(E) Violation. You are in violation of the monitoring require- ments for each quarter that a monitoring result would be used in calculating an LRAA if you fail to monitor. 
(2) Routine Monitoring. (A) Monitoring. 
1. If you submitted an IDSE report, you must begin monitoring at the locations and months you have recom- mended in your IDSE report submitted under the monitoring location recommendations and chart in 40 CFR part 141 subpart U, which is incorporated by reference in 10 CSR 60- 4.092, following the schedule in subsection (1)(C) of this rule, unless the department requires other locations or addi- tional locations after its review. If you submitted a 40/30 certification or qualified for a very small system waiver under 40 CFR part 141 subpart U, which is incorporated by refer- ence in 10 CSR 60-4.092, or you are a nontransient non- community water system serving less than ten thousand (10,000) population, you must monitor at the location(s) and dates identified in your monitoring plan under 10 CSR 60- 4.090(3)(A)3., updated as required by section (3) of this rule. 
2. You must monitor at no fewer than the number of locations identified in the following table. 

Page 1826 
Proposed Rules 
Stage 2 D/DBP Routine Monitoring 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Source water type 
Population size category 
Monitoring Frequency1 

Distribution system monitoring location total per monitoring period 2 
Surface water system or ground water under the direct influence of surface water: 
Ground water: 
<500 500–3,300 3,301–9,999 10,000–49,999 50,000–249,999 250,000–999,999 1,000,000–4,999,999 5,000,000 
<500 500–9,999 10,000–99,999 100,000–499,999 500,000 
Per year Per quarter Per quarter Per quarter Per quarter Per quarter Per quarter Per quarter 
Per year Per year Per quarter Per quarter Per quarter 

2 2 2 4 8 12 16 20 
2 2 4 6 8 
1 All systems must monitor during month of highest DBP concentrations. 2 Systems on quarterly monitoring must take dual sample sets every 90 days at each monitoring location, except for surface water systems or ground water under the direct influence of surface water serving 500–3,300. Systems on annual monitoring and surface water systems or ground water under the direct influence of surface water serving 500–3,300 are required to take individual TTHM and HAA5 samples (instead of a dual sample set) at the location with the highest TTHM and HAA5 concentrations, respectively. Only one (1) location with a dual sample set per monitoring period is needed if the highest TTHM and HAA5 concentrations occur at the same location (and month, if monitored annually). 
3. If you are an undisinfected systems that begins using a disinfectant other than ultraviolet (UV) light after the dates in 40 CFR part 141 subpart U for complying with the Initial Distribution System Evaluation requirements, you must con- sult with the department to identify compliance monitoring locations for this rule. You must then develop a monitoring plan under section (3) of this rule that includes those moni- toring locations. 
(B) Analytical methods. You must use an approved method listed in 10 CSR 60-5.010 for TTHM and HAA5 analyses. Analyses must be conducted by laboratories that have received certification by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or the department as specified in 10 CSR 60-5.010.] 
(C) Community water systems and nontransient noncommuni- ty water systems must comply with maximum residual disinfec- tant levels (MRDLs), monitoring and compliance requirements of this rule, and the MCLs of 0.080 mg/L for total triahalomethanes (TTHM), 0.060 mg/L for haloacetic acids (five) (HAA5), 0.010 mg/L for bromate, and 1.0 mg/L for chlorite. 
(2) Monitoring Requirements (A) Disinfectant Residuals, Chlorite, and Bromate Monitoring 
Requirements. 1. Chlorine and chloramines. 
A. Routine monitoring. Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems must measure the residual disinfec- tant level at the same points in the distribution system and at the same time as total coliforms are sampled, as specified in 10 CSR 60-4.022. Systems using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water may use the results of residual 
disinfectant concentration sampling conducted under 10 CSR 60- 4.080(3) and 10 CSR 60-4.055(4), in lieu of taking separate sam- ples. 
B. Reduced monitoring. Monitoring may not be reduced. 2. Chlorine dioxide. 
A. Routine monitoring. Community, nontransient non- community, and transient noncommunity water systems that use chlorine dioxide for disinfection or oxidation must take daily samples at the entrance to the distribution system. For any daily sample that detects chlorine dioxide, the system must take addi- tional samples in the distribution system the following day in addition to the sample required at the entrance to the distribu- tion system. 
B. Additional monitoring. On each day following a routine sample monitoring result that detects chlorine dioxide, the system is required to take three (3) chlorine dioxide distribution system samples as close to the first customer as possible, at intervals of at least six (6) hours. If chloramines are used to maintain a dis- infectant residual in the distribution system, or if chlorine is used to maintain a disinfectant residual in the distribution system and there are no disinfection addition points after the entrance to the distribution system (that is, no booster chlorination), the system must take three (3) samples as close to the first customer as pos- sible, at intervals of at least six (6) hours. If chlorine is used to maintain a disinfectant residual in the distribution system and there are one (1) or more disinfection addition points after the entrance to the distribution system (that is, booster chlorination), the system must take one (1) sample at each of the following loca- tions: as close to the first customer as possible; in a location rep- resentative of average residence time; and as close to the end of 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1827 

the distribution system as possible (reflecting maximum resi- dence time in the distribution system). 
C. Reduced monitoring. Chlorine dioxide monitoring may not be reduced. 
3. Chlorite. A. Routine monitoring. Community and nontransient 
noncommunity water systems using chlorine dioxide, for disinfec- tion or oxidation, must conduct monitoring for chlorite. 
(I) Daily Monitoring. Systems must take daily samples at the entrance to the distribution system. For any daily sample that exceeds the chlorite MCL, the system must take additional samples in the distribution system the following day at the follow- ing locations: near the first customer; at a location representative of average residence time; and at a location reflecting maximum residence time in the distribution system, in addition to the sam- ple required at the entrance to the distribution system. 
(II) Monthly monitoring. Systems must take a three (3)- sample set each month in the distribution system. The system must take one (1) sample at each of the following locations: near the first customer; at a location representative of average resi- dence time; and at a location reflecting maximum residence time in the distribution system. Any additional routine sampling must be conducted in the same manner (as three (3)-sample sets, at the specified locations). The system may use the results of additional monitoring conducted under the following subparagraph (2)(A)3.B. to meet the requirement for monthly monitoring. 
B. Additional monitoring. On each day following a routine sample monitoring result that exceeds the chlorite MCL at the entrance to the distribution system, the system is required to take three (3) chlorite distribution system samples at the following locations: as close to the first customer as possible, in a location representative of average residence time, and as close to the end of the distribution system as possible (reflecting maximum resi- dence time in the distribution system). 
C. Reduced monitoring. (I) Chlorite monitoring at the entrance to the distribu- 
tion system required by part (2)(A)3.A.(I) of this rule may not be reduced. 
(II) Chlorite monitoring in the distribution system required by part (2)(A)3.A.(II) of this rule may be reduced to one (1) three (3)-sample set per quarter after one (1) year of monitor- ing where no individual chlorite sample taken in the distribution system under part (2)(A)3.A.(II) of this rule has exceeded the chlorite MCL and the system has not been required to conduct monitoring under subparagraph (2)(A)3.B. of this rule. The sys- tem may remain on the reduced monitoring schedule until either any of the three (3) individual chlorite samples taken quarterly in the distribution system under part (2)(A)3.A.(II) of this rule exceeds the chlorite MCL or the system is required to conduct monitoring under subparagraph (2)(A)3.B. of this rule, at which time the system must revert to routine monitoring. 
4. Bromate. A. Routine monitoring. Community and nontransient 
noncommunity systems using ozone for disinfection or oxidation must take one (1) sample per month for each treatment plant in the system using ozone. Systems must take samples monthly at the entrance to the distribution system while the ozonation system is operating under normal conditions. 
B. Reduced monitoring. A system required to analyze for bromate may reduce monitoring from monthly to quarterly, if the system’s running annual average bromate concentration is less than or equal to 0.0025 mg/L based on monthly bromate measurements for the most recent four (4) quarters, with samples analyzed using Method 317.0 Revision 2.0, 326.0, or 321.8. If a system has qualified for reduced bromate monitoring, that sys- tem may remain on reduced monitoring as long as the running annual average of quarterly bromate samples is ≤0.0025 mg/L based on samples analyzed using Method 317.0 Revision 2.0, 326.0, or 321.8. If the running annual average bromate concen- 
tration is >0.0025 mg/L, the system must resume routine moni- toring required by subparagraph (2)(A)4.A. of this rule. 
(B) Disinfection Byproduct Precursors (DBPP) Monitoring Requirements. 
1. Total Organic Carbon (TOC). A. Routine Monitoring. Systems using surface water or 
ground water under the direct influence of surface water and using conventional filtration treatment must monitor each treat- ment plant for total organic carbon (TOC) no later than the point of combined filter effluent turbidity monitoring and representa- tive of the treated water. These systems must also monitor for TOC in the source water prior to any treatment at the same time as monitoring for TOC in the treated water. These samples (source water and treated water) are referred to as paired sam- ples. At the same time as the source water sample is taken, all systems must monitor for alkalinity in the source water prior to any treatment. Systems must take one (1) paired sample and one (1) source water alkalinity sample per month per plant at a time representative of normal operating conditions and influent water quality. 
B. Reduced monitoring. Systems using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water with an average treated water TOC of less than 2.0 mg/L for two (2) con- secutive years, or less than 1.0 mg/L for one (1) year, may reduce monitoring for both TOC and alkalinity to one (1) paired sample and one (1) source water alkalinity sample per plant per quarter. The system must revert to routine monitoring in the month fol- lowing the quarter when the annual average treated water TOC greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/L. 
2. Bromide. Systems required to analyze for bromate may reduce bromate monitoring from monthly to once per quarter, if the system demonstrates that the average source water bromide concentration is less than 0.05 mg/L based upon representative monthly measurements for one (1) year. The system must contin- ue bromide monitoring to remain on reduced bromate monitor- ing. 
(C) Total Trihalomethane and Haloacetic Acid Monitoring Requirements. 
1. General Requirements. A. Undisinfected systems that begins using a disinfectant 
other than ultraviolet (UV) light must consult with the depart- ment to identify compliance monitoring locations for this rule. Systems must then develop a monitoring plan that includes those monitoring locations. 
[(3)]B. Stage 2 D/DBP [Rule] Compliance Monitoring Plan. [(A)](I) Developing and implementing a monitoring plan. 
[1. You] The system must develop and implement a monitoring plan to be kept on file for department and public review. Unless oth- erwise directed by the department, [T]the monitoring plan must contain the following elements and be complete no later than the date [you conduct your] initial monitoring under this rule is conduct- ed: 
[A.](a) Monitoring locations; [B.](b) Monitoring dates; [C.](c) Compliance calculation procedures; and [D.](d) Monitoring plans for any other systems in the 
combined distribution system if the department has reduced monitor- ing requirements. 
[2. If you were not required to submit an IDSE report under either Standard Monitoring or System Specific Studies in 40 CFR part 141 subpart U, and you do not have sufficient Stage 1 D/DBP rule monitoring locations to identify the required number of Stage 2 D/DBP rule compliance monitor- ing locations indicated in the Monitoring Location Recommendations table in 40 CFR part 141 subpart U, you must identify additional locations by alternating selection of locations representing high TTHM levels and high HAA5 levels until the required number of compliance monitoring locations have been identified. You must also provide the rationale for 

Page 1828 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
identifying the locations as having high levels of TTHM or HAA5. If you have more Stage 1 D/DBP rule monitoring loca- tions than required for Stage 2 D/DBP rule compliance moni- toring, detailed in the Monitoring Location Recommendations table in 40 CFR part 141 subpart U, you must identify which locations you will to use for Stage 2 D/DBP rule compliance monitoring by alternating selection of locations representing high TTHM levels and high HAA5 levels until the required number of Stage 2 D/DBP rule compliance monitoring loca- tions have been identified. 
(B) If you are a surface water system or ground water under the direct influence of surface water system serving greater than three thousand three hundred (>3,300) people, you must submit a copy of your monitoring plan to the department prior to the date you conduct your initial moni- toring under this rule, unless your IDSE report submitted under 40 CFR part 141 subpart U contains all the informa- tion required by section (3) of this rule.] 
(II) The system must identify which locations to use for Stage 2 D/DBP rule compliance monitoring by alternating selec- tion of locations representing high TTHM levels and high HAA5 levels until the required number of Stage 2 D/DBP rule compli- ance monitoring locations have been identified. 
(III) The system must submit a copy of the monitoring plan to the department prior to the date the system conducts the initial monitoring under this rule. 
[(C)](IV) [You] A system may revise [your] the monitor- ing plan to reflect changes in treatment, distribution system opera- tions and layout (including new service areas), or other factors that may affect TTHM or HAA5 formation, or for department-approved reasons, after consultation with the department regarding the need for changes and the appropriateness of changes. If [you] the system changes monitoring locations, [you] the system must replace exist- ing compliance monitoring locations with the lowest LRAA with new locations that reflect the current distribution system locations with expected high TTHM or HAA5 levels. The department may also require modifications in [your] the system’s monitoring plan. [If you are a surface water system or ground water under the direct influence of surface water system serving greater than three thousand three hundred (>3,300) people, you] The system must submit a copy of [your] the modified monitoring plan to the department prior to the date [you are] the system is required to comply with the revised monitoring plan. 
C. Monitoring must begin at the locations and months the system has recommended in the Stage 2 D/DBP Compliance Monitoring Plan unless the department requires other locations or additional locations after its review. 
D. Analytical methods. The system must use an approved method listed in 10 CSR 60-5.010 for TTHM and HAA5 analy- ses. Analyses must be conducted by laboratories that have received certification by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or the department as specified in 10 CSR 60-5.020. 
E. Additional Requirements for Consecutive Systems. If the system is a consecutive system that does not add a disinfectant but delivers water that has been treated with a primary or resid- ual disinfectant other than ultraviolet light, the system must com- ply with analytical and monitoring requirements for chlorine and chloramines in 10 CSR 60-5.010 and 10 CSR 60-4.055(4)(E), the compliance requirements in 10 CSR 60-4.094(3)(B.)1. and report monitoring results under 10 CSR 60-7.010(5)(B). 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1829 











 







 
[(4)]2. Reduced Monitoring. A. Monitoring requirements for source water TOC. In 
order to qualify for reduced monitoring for TTHM and HAA5, surface water and ground water under the direct influence of sur- face water (GWUDISW) systems not monitoring under the TOC reduced monitoring provisions, must take monthly TOC samples every thirty (30) days at a location prior to any treatment. Once qualified for reduced monitoring for TTHM and HAA5, a system may reduce source water TOC monitoring to quarterly TOC samples taken every ninety (90) days at a location prior to any treatment. 
[(A)]B. [You] The system may reduce monitoring [to the level specified in this subsection (4)(A)] any time the LRAA is ≤0.040 mg/L for TTHM and ≤0.030 mg/L for HAA5 at all mon- itoring locations. [You may only use data collected under the provisions of this rule or the Stage 1 D/DBP rule to qualify for reduced monitoring.] In addition, the source water annual average [total organic carbon (]TOC[)] level, before any treatment, must be ≤4.0 mg/L at each treatment plant treating surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water[, based on monitoring conducted under either 10 CSR 60- 4.090(3)(B)1.C. or 10 CSR 60-4.090(3)(D)]. 

Page 1830 
Proposed Rules 
Stage 2 D/DBP Reduced Monitoring 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
Source water type 
Population size category 
Monitoring Frequency1 
Distribution system monitoring location per monitoring period 
Surface water system or ground water under the direct influence of surface water: 
Ground water: 
<500 500–3,300 
3,301–9,999 
10,000–49,999 50,000–249,999 250,000–999,999 1,000,000–4,999,999 5,000,000 
<500 
500-9,999 
10,000-99,999 
100,000-499,999 500,000 
............ Per year 
Per year 
Per quarter Per quarter Per quarter Per quarter Per quarter Every third year 
Per year 
Per year 
Per quarter Per quarter 
Monitoring may not be reduced. 
1 TTHM and 1 HAA5 sample: one at the location and during the quarter with the highest TTHM single measurement; one at the location and during the quarter with the highest HAA5 single measurement; and 1 dual sample set per year if the highest TTHM and HAA5 measurements occurred at the same location and quarter. 
2 dual sample sets: one at the location and during the quarter with the highest TTHM single measurement; and one at the location and during the quarter with the highest HAA5 single measurement. 
2 dual sample sets at the locations with the highest TTHM and highest HAA5 LRAAs. 
4 dual sample sets—at the locations with the two highest TTHM and two highest HAA5 LRAAs. 
6 dual sample sets—at the locations with the three highest TTHM and three highest HAA5 LRAAs. 
8 dual sample sets—at the locations with the four highest TTHM and four highest HAA5 LRAAs. 
10 dual sample sets—at the locations with the five highest TTHM and five highest HAA5 LRAAs. 
1 TTHM and 1 HAA5 sample: one at the location and during the quarter with the highest TTHM single measurement; one at the location and during the quarter with the highest HAA5 single measurement; and 1 dual sample set per year if the highest TTHM and HAA5 measurements occurred at the same location and quarter. 
1 TTHM and 1 HAA5 sample: one at the location and during the quarter with the highest TTHM single measurement; one at the location and during the quarter with the highest HAA5 single measurement; and 1 dual sample set per year if the highest TTHM and HAA5 measurements occurred at the same location and quarter. 
2 dual sample sets: one at the location and during the quarter with the highest TTHM single measurement; and one at the location and during the quarter with the highest HAA5 single measurement. 
2 dual sample sets; at the locations with the highest TTHM and highest HAA5 LRAAs. 
4 dual sample sets at the locations with the two highest TTHM and two highest HAA5 LRAAs. 
1Systems on quarterly monitoring must take dual sample sets every 90 days. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1831 

[(B)]C. [You] The system may remain on reduced monitor- ing as long as the TTHM LRAA ≤0.040 mg/L and the HAA5 LRAA ≤0.030 mg/L at each monitoring location (for systems with quarterly reduced monitoring) or each TTHM sample ≤0.060 mg/L and each HAA5 sample ≤0.045 mg/L (for systems with annual or less frequent monitoring). In addition, the source water annual aver- age TOC level, before any treatment, must be ≤4.0 mg/L at each treatment plant treating surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water[, based on monitoring conduct- ed under either 10 CSR 60-4.090 (3)(B)1.C. or 10 CSR 60- 4.090(3)(D)]. 
[(C)]D. If the LRAA based on quarterly monitoring at any monitoring location exceeds either 0.040 mg/L for TTHM or 0.030 mg/L for HAA5 or if the annual (or less frequent) sample at any location exceeds either 0.060 mg/L for TTHM or 0.045 mg/L for HAA5, or if the source water annual average TOC level, before any treatment, >4.0 mg/L at any treatment plant treating surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, [you] the system must resume routine monitoring under section 10 CSR 60-4.094(2)(C)2. or begin increased monitoring if [section] para- graph 10 CSR 60-4.094[(6)](2)(C)4. applies. 
[(D)]E. The department may return [your] the system to rou- tine monitoring at the department’s discretion. 
[(5) Additional Requirements for Consecutive Systems. If you are a consecutive system that does not add a disinfec- tant but delivers water that has been treated with a primary or residual disinfectant other than ultraviolet light, you must comply with analytical and monitoring requirements for chlo- rine and chloramines in 10 CSR 60-5.010 and 10 CSR 60- 4.055(4)(E) and the compliance requirements in 10 CSR 60- 4.090(4)(C)1. beginning April 1, 2009, unless required ear- lier by the department, and report monitoring results under 10 CSR 60-7.010(6)(C).] 
[(6)]3. [Conditions Requiring] Increased Monitoring. [(A)]A. If [you are] the system is required to monitor at a particular location annually or less frequently than annually under [section (2) or (4)] routine or reduced monitoring of this rule, [you] the system must increase monitoring to dual sample sets once per quarter (taken every ninety (90) days) at all locations if a TTHM sample is >0.080 mg/L or an HAA5 sample is >0.060 mg/L at any 
location. [(B)]B. [You are] The system is in violation of the MCL 
when the LRAA exceeds the Stage 2 D/DBP rule MCLs in [subsec- tion] subparagraph 10 CSR [60-4.090[(1)(D)]60- 4.094(3)(D)3.A., calculated based on four (4) consecutive quarters of monitoring (or the LRAA calculated based on fewer than four (4) quarters of data if the MCL would be exceeded regardless of the monitoring results of subsequent quarters). [You are] The system is in violation of the monitoring requirements for each quarter that a monitoring result would be used in calculating an LRAA if [you] the system fails to monitor. 
[(C)]C. [You] The system may return to routine monitoring once [you have] the system has conducted increased monitoring for at least four (4) consecutive quarters and the LRAA for every mon- itoring location is ≤0.060 mg/L for TTHM and ≤0.045 mg/L for HAA5. 
(3) Compliance Requirements. (A) General Requirements. 
1. Where compliance is based on a locational running annu- al average (LRAA) or running annual average (RAA) of monthly or quarterly samples or averages and the system fails to monitor for TTHM, HAA5, or bromate, this failure to monitor will be treated as a monitoring violation for the entire period covered by the annual average. 
2. Where compliance is based on a running annual average 
of monthly or quarterly samples or averages and the system’s failure to monitor makes it impossible to determine compliance with MRDLs for chlorine and chloramines, this failure to moni- tor will be treated as a monitoring violation for the entire period covered by the annual average. 
3. All samples taken and analyzed under the provisions of this rule must be included in determining compliance, even if that number is greater than the minimum required. 
4. If, during the first year of monitoring, any individual quarter’s average will cause the running annual average of that system to exceed the MCL, the system is out of compliance at the end of that quarter. 
5. Systems required to monitor quarterly. To comply with MCLs in paragraph 10 CSR 60-4.094(2)(C)1.the system must cal- culate LRAAs for TTHM and HAA5 using monitoring results collected under this rule and determine that each LRAA does not exceed the MCL. If the system fails to complete four (4) consec- utive quarters of monitoring, the system must calculate compli- ance with the MCL based on the average of the available data from the most recent four (4) quarters. If the system takes more than one (1) sample per quarter at a monitoring location, the sys- tem must average all samples taken in the quarter at that location to determine a quarterly average to be used in the LRAA calcu- lation. 
6. Systems required to monitor yearly or less frequently. To determine compliance with the Stage 2 D/DBP MCLs in subpara- graph 10 CSR 60-4.094(3)(D)3.A., the system must determine that each sample taken is less than the MCL. If any sample exceeds the MCL, the system must comply with the requirements of increased monitoring of this rule. If no sample exceeds the MCL, the sample result for each monitoring location is consid- ered the LRAA for that monitoring location. 
7. Violation. If a system fails to monitor, the system is in vio- lation of the monitoring requirements for each quarter or moni- toring period that a monitoring result would be used in calculat- ing a LRAA for TTHM and HAA5 or RAA for bromate or chlo- rite. 
(B) Disinfectant Residuals, Chlorite, and Bromate. 1. Chlorine and chloramines. 
A. Compliance must be based on a running annual arith- metic average, computed quarterly, of monthly averages of all samples collected by the system under paragraph (2)(A)1. of this rule. If the average covering any consecutive four (4)-quarter period exceeds the MRDL, the system is in violation of the MRDL and must notify the public pursuant to 10 CSR 60-8.010, in addition to reporting to the department pursuant to 10 CSR 60-7.010. 
B. In cases where systems switch between the use of chlo- rine and chloramines for residual disinfection during the year, compliance must be determined by including together all moni- toring results of both chlorine and chloramines in calculating compliance. Reports submitted pursuant to 10 CSR 60-7.010(5) must clearly indicate which residual disinfectant was analyzed for each sample. 
2. Chlorine dioxide. A. Acute violations. Compliance must be based on consec- 
utive daily samples collected by the system under subparagraph (2)(A)2.A. of this rule. If any daily sample taken at the entrance to the distribution system exceeds the MRDL, and on the follow- ing day one (1) (or more) of the three (3) samples taken in the dis- tribution system exceed the MRDL, the system is in violation of the MRDL and must take immediate corrective action to lower the level of chlorine dioxide below the MRDL and must notify the public pursuant to the procedures for acute health risks in 10 CSR 60-8.010(2), in addition to reporting to the department pur- suant to 10 CSR 60-7.010. Failure to take samples in the distrib- ution system the day following an exceedance of the chlorine diox- ide MRDL at the entrance to the distribution system will also be 

Page 1832 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
considered an MRDL violation and the system must notify the public of the violation in accordance with the provisions for acute violations under 10 CSR 60-8.010(2), in addition to reporting to the department pursuant to 10 CSR 60-7.010. 
B. Nonacute violations. Compliance must be based on consecutive daily samples collected by the system in compliance with this rule. 
(I) If any two (2) consecutive daily samples taken at the entrance to the distribution system detect chlorine dioxide, the system must take corrective action to lower the chlorine dioxide level. 
(II) If any two (2) consecutive daily samples taken at the entrance to the distribution system exceed the MRDL and all dis- tribution system samples taken are below the MRDL, the system is in violation of the MRDL and must take corrective action to lower the level of chlorine dioxide below the MRDL at the point of sampling and notify the public pursuant to the procedures for nonacute health risks in 10 CSR 60-8.010(3), in addition to reporting to the department pursuant to 10 CSR 60-7.010. Failure to monitor at the entrance to the distribution system the day following an exceedance of the chlorine dioxide MRDL at the entrance to the distribution system is also an MRDL violation and the system must notify the public of the violation in accor- dance with the provisions for nonacute violations in 10 CSR 60- 8.010(3), in addition to reporting to the department pursuant to 10 CSR 60-7.010. 
(C) Disinfection Byproduct Precursors (DBPP). 1. Systems using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water and using conventional filtration treatment must operate with enhanced coagulation or enhanced softening to achieve the TOC percent removal levels specified in this rule unless the system meets at least one (1) of the alternative compliance criteria listed here. These systems must still comply with monitoring and compliance requirements of this rule. The alternative compliance criteria for enhanced coagulation and 
enhanced softening are: A. The system’s source water TOC level, measured 
according to 10 CSR 60-5.010, is less than 2.0 mg/L, calculated quarterly as a running annual average; 
B. The system’s treated water TOC level, measured according to 10 CSR 60-5.010, is less than 2.0 mg/L, calculated quarterly as a running annual average; 
C. The system’s source water TOC level, measured according to 10 CSR 60-5.010, is less than 4.0 mg/L, calculated quarterly as a running annual average; the source water alkalin- ity, measured according to 10 CSR 60-5.010, is greater than sixty (60) mg/L (as CaCO3), calculated quarterly as a running annual average; and either the TTHM and HAA5 running annual aver- ages are no greater than 0.040 mg/L and 0.030 mg/L, respective- ly; or prior to the effective date for compliance with this rule, the system has made a clear and irrevocable financial commitment not later than the effective date for compliance with this rule to use technologies that will limit the levels of TTHMs and HAA5 to no more than 0.040 mg/L and 0.030 mg/L, respectively. Systems must submit evidence of a clear and irrevocable financial com- mitment, in addition to a schedule containing milestones and periodic progress reports for installation and operation of appro- priate technologies, to the department for approval not later than the effective date for compliance with this rule. These technolo- gies must be installed and operating not later than June 30, 2005. Failure to install and operate these technologies by the date in the approved schedule will constitute a violation; 
D. The TTHM and HAA5 running annual averages are no greater than 0.040 mg/L and 0.030 mg/L, respectively, and the system uses only chlorine for primary disinfection and mainte- nance of a residual in the distribution system; 
E. The system’s source water SUVA, prior to any treat- ment and measured monthly according to 10 CSR 60-5.010, is 
less than or equal to 2.0 L/mg-m, calculated quarterly as a run- ning annual average. SUVA refers to Specific Ultraviolet Absorption at two hundred fifty-four nanometers (254 nm), an indicator of the humic content of water. It is a calculated para- meter obtained by dividing a sample’s ultraviolet absorption at a wavelength of 254 nm (UV254) (in m=1) by its concentration of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) (in mg/L); and 
F. The system’s finished water SUVA, measured monthly according to 10 CSR 60-5.010, is less than or equal to 2.0 L/mg- m, calculated quarterly as a running annual average. 
2. Additional alternative compliance criteria for softening systems. Systems practicing enhanced softening that cannot achieve the Step 1 TOC removals may use the alternative compli- ance criteria listed here in lieu of complying with paragraph (3)(C)3. of this rule. Systems must still comply with monitoring and compliance requirements of this rule. 
A. Softening that results in lowering the treated water alka- linity to less than sixty (60) mg/L (as CaCO3), measured monthly according to 10 CSR 60-5.010 and calculated quarterly as a run- ning annual average. 
B. Softening that results in removing at least ten (10) mg/L of magnesium hardness (as CaCO3), measured monthly accord- ing to 10 CSR 60-5.010 and calculated quarterly as an annual running average. 
3. Enhanced coagulation and enhanced softening perfor- mance requirements. 
A. Systems must achieve the percent reduction of TOC spec- ified in Table 1 between the source water and the combined filter effluent, unless the department approves a system’s request for alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements. Systems may begin monitoring to determine whether Step 1 TOC removals can be met twelve (12) months prior to the compliance date for the system. This monitoring is not required and failure to monitor during this period is not a violation. However, any sys- tem that does not monitor during this period, and then deter- mines in the first twelve (12) months after the compliance date that it is not able to meet the Step 1 requirements and must therefore apply for alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements, is not eligible for retroactive approval of alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements and is in violation. Systems may apply for alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements any time after the compliance date. For systems required to meet Step 1 TOC removals, if the value calculated under part (3)(C)4.A.(IV) of this rule is less than 1.00, the system is in violation of the treatment technique requirements and must notify the public pursuant to 10 CSR 60-8.010 in addition to reporting to the department pursuant to 10 CSR 60-7.010. 
B. Required Step 1 TOC reductions, indicated in the follow- ing table, are based upon specified source water parameters mea- sured in accordance with 10 CSR 60-5.010. Systems practicing softening are required to meet the Step 1 TOC reductions in the far right column (Source water alkalinity >120 mg/L) for the specified source water TOC. 

 

  

     


1Systems meeting at least one (1) of the conditions in paragraph (3)(C)1. of this rule are not required to operate with enhanced 


   




  
 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1833 

coagulation. 2Softening systems meeting one (1) of the alternative compliance criteria in paragraph (3)(C)1. of this rule are not required to operate with enhanced softening. 3Systems practicing softening must meet the TOC removal requirements in this column. 
C. Conventional treatment systems using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water that cannot achieve the Step 1 TOC removals due to water quality parameters or operational constraints must apply to the depart- ment, within three (3) months of failure to achieve the Step 1 TOC removals, for approval of alternative minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements submitted by the system. If the department approves the alternative minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements, the department may make those require- ments retroactive for the purposes of determining compliance. Until the department approves the alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements, the system must meet the Step 1 TOC removals. 
D. Alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) require- ments. Applications made to the department by enhanced coag- ulation systems for approval of alternative minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements under subparagraph (3)(C)3.C. of this rule must include, as a minimum, results of bench- or pilot- scale testing conducted under this subparagraph (3)(C)3.D. and used to determine the alternate enhanced coagulation level. 
(I) Alternate enhanced coagulation level is defined as coagulation at a coagulant dose and pH as determined by the method described here such that an incremental addition of ten (10) mg/L of alum (or equivalent amount of ferric salt) results in a TOC removal of less than or equal to 0.3 mg/L. The percent removal of TOC at this point on the “TOC removal versus coag- ulant dose” curve is then defined as the minimum TOC removal required for the system. Once approved by the department, this minimum requirement supersedes the minimum TOC removal required by Table 1 of this rule. This requirement will be effec- tive until such time as the department approves a new value based on the results of a new bench- and pilot-scale test. Failure to achieve department-set alternative minimum TOC removal lev- els is a violation. 
(II) Bench- or pilot-scale testing of enhanced coagula- tion must be conducted by using representative water samples and adding 10 mg/L increments of alum (or equivalent amounts of ferric salt) until the pH is reduced to a level less than or equal to the enhanced coagulation Step 2 target pH shown in Table 2. 

(III) For waters with alkalinities of less than sixty (60) mg/L for which addition of small amounts of alum or equivalent addition of iron coagulant drives the pH below 5.5 before signif- icant TOC removal occurs, the system must add necessary chem- icals to maintain the pH between 5.3 and 5.7 in samples until the TOC removal of 0.3 mg/L per 10 mg/L alum added (or equivalent addition of iron coagulant) is reached. 
(IV) The system may operate at any coagulant dose or pH necessary (consistent with other regulatory requirements) to achieve the minimum TOC percent removal approved under sub- paragraph (3)(C)3.C. of this rule. 
(V) If the TOC removal is consistently less than 0.3 mg/L of TOC per 10 mg/L of incremental alum dose at all 
dosages of alum (or equivalent addition of iron coagulant), the water is deemed to contain TOC not amenable to enhanced coag- ulation. The system may then apply to the department for a waiv- er of enhanced coagulation requirements. 
4. Compliance calculations. A. Systems using surface water or ground water under the 
direct influence of surface water, other than those identified in paragraphs (3)(C)1. or (3)(C)2. of this rule, must comply with requirements contained in subparagraphs (3)(C)3.B. or (3)(C)3.C. of this rule. Systems must calculate compliance quar- terly, beginning after the system has collected twelve (12) months of data, by determining an annual average using the following method: 
(I) Determine actual monthly TOC percent removal, equal to: (1 – (treated water TOC/source water TOC)) × 100; 
(II) Determine the required monthly TOC percent removal; 
(III) Divide the value in part (3)(C)4.A.(I) by the value in part (3)(C)4.A.(II); and 
(IV) Add together the results of part (3)(C)4.A.(III) for the last twelve (12) months and divide by twelve (12). If the value calculated is less than 1.00, the system is not in compliance with the TOC percent removal requirements. 
B. Systems may use the following provisions in lieu of the calculations in subparagraph (3)(C)4.A. of this rule to determine compliance with TOC percent removal requirements: 
(I) In any month that the system’s treated or source water TOC level, measured according to 10 CSR 60-5.010, is less than 2.0 mg/L, the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value calculated in part (3)(C)4.A.(III) of this rule); 
(II) In any month that a system practicing softening removes at least 10 mg/L of magnesium hardness (as CaCO3), the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value cal- culated in part (3)(C)4.A.(III) of this rule); 
(III) In any month that the system’s source water SUVA, prior to any treatment and measured according to 10 CSR 60-5.010, is less than or equal to 2.0 L/mg-m, the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value calculated in part (3)(C)4.A.(III) of this rule); 
(IV) In any month that the system’s finished water SUVA, measured according to 10 CSR 60-5.010, is less than or equal to 2.0 L/mg-m, the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value calculated in part (3)(C)4.A.(III) of this rule); and 
(V) In any month that a system practicing enhanced softening lowers alkalinity below sixty (60) mg/L (as CaCO3), the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value cal- culated in part (3)(C)4.A.(III) of this rule). 
C. Systems using conventional treatment and surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water may also comply with the requirements of this rule by meeting the criteria in paragraphs (3)(C)1. or (3)(C)2. of this rule. 
(D) Disinfection Byproducts. 1. Bromate. Compliance must be based on a running annual 
arithmetic average, computed quarterly, of monthly samples (or, for months in which the system takes more than one sample, the average of all samples taken during the month) collected by the system as prescribed by paragraph (2)(A)4. of this rule. If the average of samples covering any consecutive four-quarter period exceeds the MCL, the system is in violation of the MCL and must notify the public pursuant to 10 CSR 60-8.010, in addition to reporting to the department pursuant to 10 CSR 60-7.010. If a PWS fails to complete twelve (12) consecutive months’ monitor- ing, compliance with the MCL for the last four (4)-quarter com- pliance period must be based on an average of the available data. 
2. Chlorite. Compliance must be based on an arithmetic average of each three (3) sample set taken in the distribution sys- tem as prescribed by item (2)(A)3.C.(II) and subparagraph 





Page 1834 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
(2)(A)3.B. of this rule. If the arithmetic average of any three (3) sample set exceeds the MCL, the system is in violation of the MCL and must notify the public pursuant to 10 CSR 60-8.010, in addition to reporting to the department pursuant to 10 CSR 60-7.010. 
3. Total Trihalomethane (TTHM) and Haloacetic Acid (HAA). 
A. Stage 2 Disinfectants/Disinfection Byproducts— Locational Running Annual Average (LRAA) Compliance. The MCLs of 0.080 mg/L for TTHM and 0.060 mg/L for HAA5 must be complied with as a locational running annual average at each monitoring location. 
B. If the system is required to conduct quarterly monitor- ing, the system must make compliance calculations at the end of the fourth calendar quarter that follows the compliance date and at the end of each subsequent quarter (or earlier if the LRAA calculated based on fewer than four (4) quarters of data would cause the MCL to be exceeded regardless of the monitoring results of subsequent quarters). If the system is required to con- duct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly, the system must make compliance calculations beginning with the first compliance sample taken after the compliance date. 
C. The department may determine that the combined dis- tribution system does not include certain consecutive systems based on factors such as receiving water from a wholesale system only on an emergency basis or receiving only a small percentage and small volume of water from a wholesale system. The depart- ment may also determine that the combined distribution system does not include certain wholesale systems based on factors such as delivering water to a consecutive system only on an emergency basis or delivering only a small percentage and small volume of water to a consecutive system. 
[(7)](E) Operational Evaluation Levels. [(A)]1. [You have] The system has exceeded the operational 
evaluation level at any monitoring location where the sum of the two (2) previous quarters of TTHM results plus twice the current quar- ter’s TTHM result, divided by four (4) to determine an average, exceeds 0.080 mg/L, or where the sum of the two (2) previous quar- ters of HAA5 results plus twice the current quarter’s HAA5 result, divided by four (4) to determine an average, exceeds 0.060 mg/L. 
[(B)]2. If Operational Evaluation Levels are Exceeded. [1.]A. If [you] the system exceeds the operational evaluation level, [you] the system must conduct an operational evaluation and submit a written report of the evaluation to the department no later than ninety (90) days after being notified of the analytical result that causes [you] the system to exceed the operational evaluation level. The written report must be made available to the public upon 
request. [2.]B. [Your] The system’s operational evaluation must 
include an examination of system treatment and distribution opera- tional practices, including storage tank operations, excess storage capacity, distribution system flushing, changes in sources or source water quality, and treatment changes or problems that may contribute to TTHM and HAA5 formation and what steps could be considered to minimize future exceedences. 
[A.](I) [You] The system may request and the department may allow [you to] a limit to the scope of [your] the evaluation if [you are] the system is able to identify the cause of the operational evaluation level exceedance. 
[B.](II) [Your] The system’s request to limit the scope of the evaluation does not extend the schedule in [paragraph (7)(B)1.] subparagraph (3)(E)2.A. of this rule for submitting the written report. The department must approve this limited scope of evalua- tion in writing, and [you] the system must keep that approval with the completed report. 
[(8) Requirements for Remaining on Reduced TTHM and HAA5 Monitoring Based on Stage 1 D/DBP Rule Results. 
You may remain on reduced monitoring after the dates iden- tified in subsection (1)(C) of this rule for compliance with this rule only if you qualify for a 40/30 certification under 40 CFR part 141 subpart U or have received a very small system waiver under 40 CFR part 141 subpart U, plus you meet the reduced monitoring criteria in subsection (4)(A) of this rule, and you do not change or add monitoring locations from those used for compliance monitoring under the Stage 1 D/DBP rule. If your monitoring locations under this rule differ from your monitoring locations under the Stage 1 D/DBP rule, you may not remain on reduced monitoring after the dates identified in subsection (1)(C) for compliance with this rule. 
(9) Requirements for Remaining on Increased TTHM and HAA5 Monitoring Based on Stage 1 D/DBP Rule Results. If you were on increased monitoring under 10 CSR 60- 4.090(3)(B)1., you must remain on increased monitoring until you qualify for a return to routine monitoring under sub- section (6)(C) of this rule. You must conduct increased mon- itoring under section (6) of this rule at the monitoring loca- tions in the monitoring plan developed under section (3) of this rule beginning at the date identified in subsection (1)(C) of this rule for compliance with this rule and remain on increased monitoring until you qualify for a return to routine monitoring under subsection (6)(C) of this rule.] 
[(10)](F) Stage 2 D/DBP Reporting and Record-Keeping Require- ments. 
[(A)]1. Reporting requirements are found in 10 CSR 60-7.010, Reporting Requirements. 
[(B)]2. Record-keeping requirements are found in 10 CSR 60- 9.010, Requirements for Maintaining Public Water System Records. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 2008] 2016. Original rule filed Feb. 27, 2009, effective Oct. 30, 2009. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65101 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-4.100 Maximum Volatile Organic Chemical Contami- nant Levels and Monitoring Requirements. The department is removing sunset language in section (4) and renumbering thereafter; correcting citations in (5)(B); removing section (9) and renumbering thereafter. 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1835 

PURPOSE: The amendment will remove language that has sunset and correct other regulation citations. 
[(4) The department may allow the use of monitoring data collected after January 1, 1988, to satisfy the initial base sampling requirements. If the initial monitoring for all conta- minants has been completed by December 31, 1992, in accordance with the requirements of subsections (3)(B) and (C) of this rule, and the system did not detect any contami- nants listed in section (2), then the system shall sample annually beginning in the initial compliance period.] 
[(5)](4) If contaminants are not detected during the first three (3)- year compliance period, systems may decrease their sampling fre- quency beginning in the next year. 
(A) Groundwater systems must sample annually. After three (3) years of annual sampling and no previous detection, groundwater systems may reduce their sampling frequency to one (1) sample per compliance period. 
(B) Surface water systems must sample annually after the initial sampling period if there are no contaminants detected in the initial sampling. 
[(6)](5) If contaminants are detected in any sample, then systems must sample quarterly beginning in the next quarter at each sampling point which resulted in a detection. 
(A) Groundwater systems must sample a minimum of two (2) quarters and surface water systems must sample a minimum of four (4) quarters to establish a baseline. 
(B) If the MCL is exceeded, as described in subsection [(6)](5)(E) or (F) of this rule, then systems must sample quarterly beginning in the next quarter. Systems must sample a minimum of four (4) quar- ters to establish a baseline. 
(C) If the baseline indicates a system’s analytical results are reli- ably and consistently below the MCL, the department may reduce the system’s sampling frequency to annually. (Annual sampling must be conducted during the quarter which previously yielded the highest analytical result.) 
(D) Systems which have three (3) consecutive annual samples with no detection of a contaminant may apply to the department for a waiver. 
(E) If a system conducts sampling more frequently than annually, the system will be in violation when the running annual average at any sampling point exceeds the MCL. 
(F) If a system conducts sampling annually or on a less frequent basis, the system will be in violation when one (1) sample (or the average of the initial and confirmation samples) at any sampling point exceeds the MCL. 
[(7)](6) A public water system may apply to the department for sus- ceptibility waivers from required sampling. Systems are eligible for reduced monitoring in the initial three (3)-year compliance period. Waivers are effective for two (2) compliance periods. The waiver must be renewed in subsequent compliance periods, or the system must conduct sampling as required by section (3) of this rule. A pub- lic water system may apply to the department for susceptibility waivers for reduced monitoring contingent on the conduct of a thor- ough vulnerability assessment as required by 10 CSR 60-6.060(3). 
(A) As a condition of the susceptibility waiver, a groundwater sys- tem must take one (1) sample at each sampling point during the time the waiver is effective (that is, one (1) sample during two (2) com- pliance periods or six (6) years) and update its vulnerability assess- ment by the end of the first compliance period. The department must confirm that the system is not vulnerable. 
(B) Surface water systems must sample at a frequency determined by the department. A vulnerability assessment according to 10 CSR 60-6.060(3) must be required in subsequent compliance periods in order for the system to return to its nonvulnerable status. 
(C) For the purposes of this section, detection is defined as greater than 0.0005 mg/[l]L. 
[(8)](7) As determined by the department, confirmation samples may be required for either positive or negative results. If a confirmation sample is used, the compliance determination is based on the average of the results of both the confirmation sample and the initial sample. 
[(9) Any public water system violating MCLs or monitoring and reporting requirements for any of the contaminants list- ed in section (2) of this rule must notify the department within seven (7) days and give public notice as required by 10 CSR 60-8.010.] 
[(10)](8) All new systems or systems that use a new source of water that begin operation after January 22, 2004 must demonstrate com- pliance with the MCL or treatment technique within a period of time specified by the department. The system must also comply with the initial sampling frequencies specified by the department to ensure a system can demonstrate compliance with the MCL or treatment tech- nique. Routine and increased monitoring frequencies shall be con- ducted in accordance with the requirements in this rule. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 2002] 2016. Original rule filed June 2, 1988, effective Aug. 31, 1988. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 6—Enforcement 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-6.060 Waivers From Baseline Monitoring Require- ments. The department is adding language to section (1) and also removing language in (1); adding and removing language in (2); removing (2)(C); adding and removing language from (3); and adding and removing language from (3)(A)4. 
PURPOSE: This amendment removes the requirement that public water systems must submit requests for waivers that meet department specifications. It also removes incorrect citations due to rule rescis- sions. 
(1) Waivers may be granted by the department in accordance with the criteria in sections (2) and (3) of this rule. The department may ini- tiate the evaluation and issue a waiver based on its evaluation of the criteria in sections (2) and (3) of this rule. A public water system may submit a written request and supporting documentation for a 

Page 1836 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
waiver in accordance with sections (2) and (3) of this rule at any time if the department has not issued or denied a waiver. [The request must be in writing, and the documentation submitted to sup- port a request for a waiver from a public water system must be in a format specified by the department.] 
(2) Use waivers may be granted if it is determined that there has been no previous use of a contaminant within a given boundary, and that the public water supply system is in no danger of contamination from the specified contaminant. Use waivers are based on the use, or absence of use, of a potentially harmful contaminant within a given boundary. The boundary size will be determined by the department and can range from a single water system to statewide. Use waivers obtained for asbestos[,] and synthetic organic chemicals [and unregulated chemicals] (SOCs) may relieve the system of any sampling requirements. Use waivers will not be granted for volatile organic chemicals listed in 10 CSR 60-4.100(2) or for inorganic chemicals listed in 10 CSR 60-4.030(1) other than asbestos. 
(A) Asbestos listed in 10 CSR 60-4.030(1)[(B)]—Waivers from analysis for asbestos in a water system will be based on the existence of asbestos-cement piping within the water system or asbestos cont- amination within the source water. If any asbestos-cement piping is present in any part of the treatment/distribution system, or if the source water is known to or suspected to contain asbestos, waivers will not be granted. 
(B) SOCs listed in 10 CSR 60-4.040—Waivers from analysis for SOCs in a water system will be based on knowledge of previous use (including transportation, storage, or previous disposal) within a given boundary. If a given SOC has been detected within a water sys- tem, a waiver will not be granted to that system. 
[(C) Unregulated organic chemicals listed in 10 CSR 60- 4.110(2)(A)—Waivers from analysis for unregulated organic chemicals in a water system will be based on knowledge of previous use (including transportation, storage or previous disposal) within a given boundary. If a given unregulated organic chemical has been detected within a water system, a waiver will not be granted.] 
(3) Susceptibility waivers may be granted in the form of reduced monitoring if all of the criteria in subsection (3)(A) are met. For assessing susceptibility and examining criteria in paragraphs (3)(A)2. and 3., the minimum boundary area will be a radius of one- quarter (1/4) of a mile about groundwater well head(s) or the water- shed area(s) of a surface water source [and shall be used when examining criteria in paragraphs (3)(A)2. and 3]. Susceptibility waivers may be granted for SOCs listed in 10 CSR 60-4.040(1) including polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), volatile organic chemi- cals (VOCs) listed in 10 CSR 60-4.100(2), [unregulated chemi- cals listed in 10 CSR 60-4.110(2)(A) and (B),] and inorganic chemicals (IOCs) listed in 10 CSR 60-4.030(1) except for nitrate and nitrite. 
(A) Criteria for Susceptibility Waivers. 1. Previous analytical results show no detections. 2. The proximity of the system to a potential point or nonpoint 
source of contamination (that is, Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) Title III hazardous waste site) is such that contamination is unlikely. 
3. The environmental persistence of the contaminant is such that contamination is unlikely to occur due to the transport time, geo- graphical, and geological characteristics. 
4. The water source is protected from contamination by being constructed in a manner no less stringent than set forth for nonpublic wells in the Water Well Construction Code 10 CSR 23-3[.010—10 CSR 23-3.100] promulgated pursuant to the Missouri Water Well Drillers Act, section 256.600–256.640, RSMo. 
5. The nitrate levels have been tested and it has been found that elevated nitrate levels indicating surface water intrusion do not exist. 6. The corrosive nature of the source water and the effectiveness 
of the systems corrosion control program. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 1992] 2016. Original rule filed March 31, 1992, effective Dec. 3, 1992. Amended: Filed May 4, 1993, effective Jan. 13, 1994. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is sched- uled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 6—Enforcement 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-6.070 Administrative Penalty Assessment. The depart- ment is removing (1)(H) and (I); adding and removing language in (2)(B)1; adding a correct citation in (4); removing section (5) and renumbering section (6). 
PURPOSE: Proposed amendments to this rule will remove duplica- tive statutory language and correcting citations identified during the Red Tape Reduction Initiative. 
(1) General Provisions. 
[(H) Any final order imposing an administrative penalty is subject to judicial review upon the filing of a petition pur- suant to section 536.100, RSMo, by any person subject to the administrative penalty. No judicial review shall be avail- able, however, until all administrative remedies are exhaust- ed. 
(I) The director may elect to assess an administrative penalty, or, in lieu thereof, to request that the attorney gen- eral or prosecutor file an appropriate legal action seeking a civil penalty in the appropriate circuit court.] 
(2) Definitions. (B) Additional definitions specific to this rule are as follows: 
1. Conference, conciliation, and persuasion. A process of ver- bal or written communications consisting of meetings, reports, cor- respondence, or telephone conferences be-tween authorized repre- sentatives of the department and the alleged violator. The process [shall], at a minimum, will consist of one (1) offer to meet with the alleged violator tendered by the department. During any such meet- ing, the department and the alleged violator [shall] will negotiate in good faith to eliminate the alleged violation and [shall] attempt to agree upon a plan to achieve compliance; 
2. Gravity-based assessment. The degree of seriousness of a violation taking into consideration the risk to human health or the environment posed by violations of sections 640.100 to 640.140, RSMo, and associated rules and permits; 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1837 

3. Major violation. A violation that poses or may pose a sub- stantial risk to human health or to the environment, or has or may have a substantial adverse effect on the purposes of or procedures for implementing the law and associated rules or permits; 
4. Minor violation. A violation that poses a small potential to harm the environment or human health or cause pollution, and was not knowingly committed; 
5. Moderate violation. A violation that poses or may pose a significant risk to human health or to the environment, or has or may have a significant adverse effect on the purposes of or procedures for implementing the law and associated rules or permits; 
6. Multiple violation penalty. The sum of individual administra- tive penalties assessed when two (2) or more violations are included in the same complaint or enforcement action; 
7. Multi-day violation. A violation that has occurred on or con- tinued for two (2) or more consecutive or nonconsecutive days; and 8. Potential for harm. The extent to which a violation poses a 
risk to human health or the environment or has a substantial adverse effect on the purposes of or procedures for implementing the law and associated rules or permits. 
(4) Payment of Penalty. The proceeds from any administrative penal- ty assessed in accordance with this rule shall be paid to the county treasurer of the county in which the violation(s) occurred for the use and benefit of the county public schools, in accordance with section 7 of article IX of the Missouri Constitution. An administrative penal- ty shall be paid within sixty (60) days from the date of issuance of the order assessing the penalty, unless appealed per section [(5) of this rule] 621.250, RSMo. Any person who fails to pay an admin- istrative penalty by the final due date shall be liable to the state for a surcharge of fifteen percent (15%) of the penalty plus ten percent (10%) per annum on any amounts owed. An action may be brought in the appropriate circuit court to collect any unpaid administrative penalty, and for attorney’s fees and costs incurred directly in the col- lection thereof. 
[(5) Appeal Process. Any order assessing an administrative penalty shall state that an administrative penalty is being assessed under section 640.131, RSMo, and that the per- son subject to the penalty may appeal as provided by this section. Any such order which fails to state the law or reg- ulation under which the penalty is being sought, the manner of collection or rights of appeal shall result in the state’s waiving any right to collection of the penalty. Should any person subject to an administrative penalty want to appeal the penalty, that person shall appeal to the Safe Drinking Water Commission within thirty (30) days of the date of issuance of the order assessing the penalty. Any appeal shall stay the due date of such administrative penalty until the appeal is resolved.] 
[(6)](5) Natural Resource Damages. Nothing in this rule shall be construed as satisfying any claims by the state or federal government for natural resource damages. 
AUTHORITY: sections 640.100 and 640.131, RSMo [Supp. 1998] 2016. Original rule filed July 1, 1999, effective March 30, 2000. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition 
to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 7—Reporting 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-7.010 Reporting Requirements. The department is amending section (1), removing section (4) and renumbering there- after, correcting rule citations in (4)(B) and (C), adding language to (5), removing (5)(A) and renumbering thereafter, removing replacing incorrect language in the new (5)(A), (B) and (C), updating (6) with new rule citations, updating (6)(A) and (B) with new rule citations, updating (6)(C) and (7)(C) with new rule citations and renumbering thereafter. 
PURPOSE: This amendment will correct rule citations due to amend- ments to 10 CSR 60-4.050 and 10 CSR 60-4.094 and the rescission of 10 CSR 60-4.090. 
(1) General Information. Except where a shorter period is specified in this rule, the supplier of water shall report to the department the results of any test measurement or analysis, except operational analy- ses required by 10 CSR 60-4.080(3) other than those specified in sections (4) and [(5)] (6) of this rule, within the first ten (10) days following the month in which the result is received or the first ten (10) days following the end of the required monitoring period as stip- ulated by the department, whichever of these is shortest. 
[(4) Turbidity measurements as required by 10 CSR 60- 4.080(3) must be reported within ten (10) days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public. Information that must be reported includes: 
(A) The total number of filtered water turbidity measure- ments taken during the month; 
(B) The number and percentage of filtered water turbidity measurements taken during the month which are less than or equal to the turbidity limits specified in 10 CSR 60-4.050; and 
(C) The date and value of any turbidity measurements taken during the month which exceed five (5) nephelometric turbidity units (NTU).] 
[(5)](4) Disinfection information must be reported within ten (10) days after the end of each month the system serves water to the pub- lic. 
(A) Information that must be reported includes: 1. For each day, the lowest measurement of residual disinfectant 
concentration in milligrams per liter (mg/L) in water entering the distribution system; 
2. The date and duration of each period when the residual dis- infectant concentration in water entering the distribution system fell below five tenths (0.5) mg/L free chlorine or one (1) mg/L chlo- ramines and when the department was notified of the occurrence; and 
3. The following information on the samples taken in the distri- bution system: 
A. Number of instances where the residual disinfectant con- centration is measured; 
B. Number of instances where the residual disinfectant con- centration is not measured but the heterotrophic bacteria plate count 

Page 1838 
(HPC) is measured; C. Number of instances where the residual disinfectant con- 
centration is measured but is less than two tenths (0.2) mg/L and no HPC is measured; 
D. Number of instances where residual disinfectant concen- tration is less than two tenths (0.2) mg/L and where the HPC is greater than five hundred per milliliter (HPC > 500/mL); 
E. Number of instances where the residual disinfectant con- centration is not measured and the HPC is greater than five hundred per milliliter (HPC > 500/mL); and 
F. For the current and previous month the system serves water to the public, the value of V in the following formula: 
V = (c + d + e) × 100 a +b 
where: V = the percentage of time that the disinfectant residual is less than 
the required residual; a = the value in subparagraph [(5)](4)(A)3.A. of this rule; b = the value in subparagraph [(5)](4)(A)3.B. of this rule; c = the value in subparagraph [(5)](4)(A)3.C. of this rule; d = the value in subparagraph [(5)](4)(A)3.D. of this rule; and e = the value in subparagraph [(5)](4)(A)3.E. of this rule. 
(B) If the department determines, based upon site-specific consid- erations, that a system has no means for having a sample transported and analyzed for HPC by a certified laboratory within the requisite time and temperature conditions specified in 10 CSR 60-5 and that the system is providing adequate disinfection in the distribution sys- tem, the requirements of paragraph [(5)](4)(A)3. do not apply. 
(C) A system need not report the data listed in subsection [(5)](4)(A) of this rule if all of that data remains on file at the system and the department determines that the system has submitted all the information required by subsection [(5)](4)(A) of this rule for at least twelve (12) months. 
[(6)](5) Reporting and Record-Keeping Requirements for Disinfection By-Products and Enhanced Surface Water Treatment for community and nontransient noncommunity water systems using chlorine, chloramines, or chlorine dioxide and for transient non- community water systems using chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant. 
[(A) Compliance Dates. 1. CWS and NTNCWS serving ten thousand (10,000) or 
more persons and using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water must comply with these requirements beginning December 16, 2001. 
2. CWS and NTNCWS serving fewer than ten thousand (10,000) persons and using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, and systems using only ground water not under the direct influence of surface water, must comply with these requirements begin- ning December 16, 2003. 
3. Transient NCWSs serving ten thousand (10,000) or more persons and using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water and using chlo- rine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant must comply with any requirements for chlorine dioxide and chlorite in this rule beginning December 16, 2001. 
4. Transient NCWSs serving fewer than ten thousand (10,000) persons, using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, and using chlo- rine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant, and systems using only ground water and using chlorine dioxide as a disinfec- tant or oxidant, must comply with any requirements in this rule for chlorine dioxide and chlorite in this rule beginning December 16, 2003.] 
[(B)](A) Disinfection By-Products. Systems must report the infor- mation specified in the following table: 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1839 




[System monitoring for TTHM and HAA5 under the requirements of 10 CSR 60-4.090(3)(B) on a quarterly or more frequent basis.] 
[(1) The number of samples taken during the last quarter. 
(2) The location, date, and result of each sample taken during the last quarter. 
(3) The arithmetic average of samples taken in the last quarter. 
(4) The annual arithmetic average of the quarterly arithmetic averages of this section for the last four (4) quarters. 
(5) Whether the MCL was exceeded.] 
[System monitoring for TTHMs and HAA5 under the requirements of 10 CSR 60- 4.090(3)(B) less frequently than quarterly (but at least annually).] 
[(1) The number of samples taken during the last quarter. 
(2) The location, date, and result of each sample taken during the last monitoring period. 
(3) The arithmetic average of all samples taken over the last year. 
(4) Whether the MCL was exceeded.] 
[System monitoring for TTHMs and HAA5 under the requirements of 10 CSR 60- 4.090(3)(B) less frequently than annually. ] 
[(1) The location, date, and result of the last sample taken. 
(2) Whether the MCL was exceeded.] 
[4.090(3)(B)] 




[4.090(3)(B)] 


 


[(C)](B) Disinfectant Residuals. Systems must report the informa- tion specified in the following table: 


- [4.090(3)(C)] 
 
 
 

[4.090(3)(C)] 
 



Page 1840 
[(D)](C) Disinfection By-Product Precursors and Enhanced Coagulation or Enhanced Softening. Systems must report the infor- mation specified in the following table: 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 



[4.090(4)(D)] - [4.090(4)(D)3] 





-[4.090(4)(D)] [4.090(4)(D)1. or 2] 
  
 
[4.090(4)(D)1.A. or C.] [4.090 (4)(D)1.B] 
[4.090(4)(D)1.E.] - [4.090(4)(D)1.F. 
[4.090(4)(D)1.C.] [4.090 (4)(D)2.] 
-[4.090 (4)(D)1.C. or D.] 

[4.090 (4)(D)2.B.] 
[4.090 (4)(D)1. or 2.] 

 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1841 

[(7)](6) Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection Reporting and Record- Keeping Requirements. In addition to the reporting and record-keep- ing requirements in sections [(5) and (8)] (4) and (7) of this rule, a public water system subject to the requirements of [10 CSR 60- 4.055(6)] 10 CSR 60-4.050 that provides conventional filtration treatment must report monthly to the department the information specified in subsections [(7)](6)(A) and [(7)](6)(B) of this rule [beginning January 1, 2002]. In addition to the reporting and record-keeping requirements in sections [(5) and (8)] (4) and (7) of this rule, a public water system subject to the requirements of [10 CSR 60-4.055(6)] 10 CSR 60-4.050 that provides filtration approved under 10 CSR 60-4.050[(3)(G)](2)(F) must report monthly to the department the information specified in subsection [(7)](6)(A) of this rule [beginning January 1, 2002]. [The reporting in subsection (7)(A) of this rule takes the place of the reporting specified in section (4) of this rule.] 
(A) Turbidity measurements as required by 10 CSR 60- 4.050[(3)(B)](2)(A) must be reported within ten (10) days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public. Information that must be reported includes: 
1. The total number of filtered water turbidity measurements taken during the month; 
2. The number and percentage of filtered water turbidity mea- surements taken during the month which are less than or equal to the turbidity limits specified in 10 CSR 60-4.050[(3)(B)](2)(A)1. or [2.] 10 CSR 60-4.050(2)(F); and 
3. The date and value of any turbidity measurements taken dur- ing the month which exceed 1 Nephelometric Turbidity Unit (NTU) for systems using conventional filtration treatment, or which exceed the applicable maximum level set by the department under 10 CSR 60-4.050(2)(F). 
(B) Systems must maintain the results of individual filter monitor- ing taken under 10 CSR 60-4.050[(3)(E)](2)(D) for at least three (3) years. Systems must report that they have conducted individual filter turbidity monitoring under 10 CSR 60-4.050[(3)(E)](2)(D) within ten (10) days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public. Systems must report the individual filter turbidity mea- surement results within ten (10) days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public only if measurements demonstrate one (1) or more of the conditions in paragraphs [(7)](6)(B)1.–2. of this rule. Systems that use lime softening may apply to the depart- ment for alternative exceedance levels for the levels specified in this subsection [(7)](6)(B) if they can demonstrate that higher turbidity levels in individual filters are due to lime carryover only and not due to degraded filter performance. 
1. Surface water systems that serve more than ten thousand (10,000) people must report the individual filter turbidity measure- ment results within ten (10) days after the end of each month only if measurements demonstrate one (1) or more of the following condi- tions[.]: 
A. For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than one and zero tenths (1.0) NTU in two (2) con- secutive measurements taken fifteen (15) minutes apart, the system must report the filter number, the turbidity measurement, and the date(s) on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the system must either produce a filter profile for the filter within seven (7) days of the exceedance (if the system is not able to identify an obvious rea- son for the abnormal filter performance) and report that the profile has been produced or report the obvious reason for the exceedance[.]; 
B. For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than five tenths (0.5) NTU in two (2) consecutive mea- surements taken fifteen (15) minutes apart at the end of the first four (4) hours of continuous filter operation after the filter has been back- washed or otherwise taken offline, the system must report the filter number, the turbidity, and the date(s) on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the system must either produce a filter profile for the filter within seven (7) days of the exceedance (if the system is 
not able to identify an obvious reason for the abnormal filter perfor- mance) and report that the profile has been produced or report the obvious reason for the exceedance[.]; 
C. For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than one and zero tenths (1.0) NTU in two (2) consecu- tive measurements taken fifteen (15) minutes apart at any time in each of three (3) consecutive months, the system must report the fil- ter number, the turbidity measurement, and the date(s) on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the system must conduct a self- assessment of the filter within fourteen (14) days of the exceedance and report that the self-assessment was conducted. The self-assess- ment must consist of at least the following components: assessment of filter performance; development of a filter profile; identification and prioritization of factors limiting filter performance; assessment of the applicability of corrections; and preparation of a filter self- assessment report[.]; and 
D. For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than two and zero tenths (2.0) NTU in two (2) con- secutive measurements taken fifteen (15) minutes apart at any time in each of two (2) consecutive months, the system must report the fil- ter number, the turbidity measurement, and the date(s) on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the system must arrange for the conduct of a Comprehensive Performance Evaluation by the depart- ment or a third party approved by the department no later than thirty (30) days following the exceedance and have the evaluation complet- ed and submitted to the department no later than ninety (90) days fol- lowing the exceedance. 
(I) The Comprehensive Performance Evaluation is a thor- ough review and analysis of a treatment plant’s performance-based capabilities and associated administrative, operation, and mainte- nance practices. It is conducted to identify factors that may be adversely impacting a plant’s capability to achieve compliance and emphasizes approaches that can be implemented without significant capital improvements. The comprehensive performance evaluation must consist of at least the following components: assessment of plant performance; evaluation of major unit processes; identification and prioritization of performance limiting factors; assessment of the applicability of comprehensive technical assistance; and preparation of a Comprehensive Performance Evaluation report. 
(II) If the Comprehensive Performance Evaluation results indicate improved performance potential, the system shall implement Comprehensive Technical Assistance. The system must identify and systematically address plant-specific factors. The Comprehensive Technical Assistance is a combination of utilizing Comprehensive Performance Evaluation results as a basis for followup, implementing process control priority-setting techniques, and maintaining long- term involvement to systematically train staff and administrators. 
2. Surface water systems that serve less than ten thousand (10,000) people must report the individual filter turbidity measure- ments within ten (10) days after the end of each month only if mea- surements demonstrate one (1) or more of the following conditions. 
A. For any individual filter that exceeds one and zero tenths (1.0) NTU in two (2) consecutive recordings fifteen (15) minutes apart, the system must report the filter number(s), corresponding date(s), turbidity value(s) which exceeded one and zero tenths (1.0) NTU, and the cause (if known) for the exceedance(s). 
B. For any individual filter that for three (3) months in a row the turbidity exceeded one and zero tenths (1.0) NTU in two (2) consecutive recordings fifteen (15) minutes apart, the system must conduct a self-assessment of the filter(s) within fourteen (14) days of the triggering event. The system must report the date self-assessment was triggered and the date it was completed. The self-assessment must consist of at least the following components: assessment of fil- ter performance; development of a filter profile; identification and prioritization of factors limiting filter performance; assessment of the applicability of corrections; and preparation of a filter self-assess- ment report. The filter self-assessment is not required if a compre- hensive performance evaluation (CPE) was required. 

Page 1842 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
C. For any individual filter that for two (2) months in a row the turbidity exceeded two and zero tenths (2.0) NTU in two (2) consecutive recordings, fifteen (15) minutes apart, the system must arrange to have a CPE conducted not later than sixty (60) days fol- lowing the triggering event. The CPE must be conducted by the department or a third party approved by the department. If a CPE has been completed by the department or a third party approved by the department within the twelve (12) prior months or the system and department are jointly participating in an ongoing Comprehensive Technical Assistance (CTA) project at the system, a new CPE is not required. If conducted, a CPE must be completed and submitted to the department no later than one hundred twenty (120) days follow- ing the triggering event. 
(C) Additional turbidity reporting requirements. Reporting requirements for turbidity exceedences are in 10 CSR 60- 4.050[(3)](2)(C). 
[(8)](7) Stage 2 Disinfectants/Disinfection By-Products (D/DBP) Rule Reporting and Record-Keeping Requirements. 
(A) Reporting. 1. You must report the following information for each monitor- 
ing location to the department within ten (10) days of the end of any quarter in which monitoring is required: 
A. Number of samples taken during the last quarter; 
B. Date and results of each sample taken during the last quar- ter; 
C. Arithmetic average of quarterly results for the last four (4) quarters for each monitoring location (LRAA), beginning at the end of the fourth calendar quarter that follows the compliance date and at the end of each subsequent quarter. If the LRAA calculated based on fewer than four (4) quarters of data would cause the maximum con- taminant level (MCL) to be exceeded regardless of the monitoring results of subsequent quarters, you must report this information to the department as part of the first report due following the compli- ance date or anytime thereafter that this determination is made. If you are required to conduct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly, you must make compliance calculations beginning with the first compliance sample taken after the compliance date, unless you are required to conduct increased monitoring under sec- tion 10 CSR 60-4.094[(6)](2)(C)4.; 
D. Whether based on 10 CSR 60-[4.090(1)(D)] 4.094(3)(D)3.A. and this rule, the MCL was violated at any moni- toring location; and 
E. Any operational evaluation levels that were exceeded dur- ing the quarter and, if so, the location and date, and the calculated total trihalomethanes (TTHM) and haloacetic acids 5 (HAA5) levels. 
2. If you are a surface water system or ground water under the direct influence of surface water system seeking to qualify for or remain on reduced TTHM/HAA5 monitoring, you must report the following source water total organic carbon (TOC) information for each treatment plant that treats surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water to the department within ten (10) days of the end of any quarter in which monitoring is required: 
A. The number of source water TOC samples taken each month during last quarter; 
B. The date and result of each sample taken during last quar- ter; 
C. The quarterly average of monthly samples taken during last quarter or the result of the quarterly sample; 
D. The running annual average (RAA) of quarterly averages from the past four (4) quarters; and 
E. Whether the RAA exceeded four and zero tenths (4.0) mg/L. 
3. The department may choose to perform calculations and determine whether the MCL was exceeded or the system is eligible for reduced monitoring in lieu of having the system report that infor- mation. 
[(9)](8) Each system, upon discovering that a waterborne disease outbreak potentially attributable to that water system has occurred, must report that occurrence to the department as soon as possible but no later than by the end of the next business day. If the system is noti- fied by the department or the Department of Health and Senior Services, of an outbreak, the reporting requirement of this section is waived. 
[(10)](9) A supplier of water shall submit proof to the department that public notification has been made within ten (10) days of the date that the notice was to have been made for initial public notice and any repeat notices. The supplier of water shall provide a certification he/she has fully complied with the public notification regulations, and shall provide a representative copy of each type of notice distrib- uted, published, posted, and made available to the persons served by the system and to the media. 
[(11)](10) Reporting Requirements for the Ground Water Rule. (A) In addition to any other applicable reporting requirements of this rule, a ground water system regulated under 10 CSR 60-4.025 
must provide the following information to the department: 1. A ground water system conducting compliance monitoring under 10 CSR 60-4.025(4)(B) must notify the department any time the system fails to meet any department-specified requirements including, but not limited to, minimum residual disinfectant concen- tration, membrane operating criteria or membrane integrity, and alternative treatment operating criteria, if operation in accordance with the criteria or requirements is not restored within four (4) hours. The ground water system must notify the department as soon as possible, but in no case later than the end of the next business day; 2. After completing any corrective action under 10 CSR 60- 4.025(4)(A), a ground water system must notify the department with- 
in thirty (30) days of completion of the corrective action; and 3. If a ground water system subject to the requirements of 10 CSR 60-4.025(3)(A) does not conduct source water monitoring under subparagraph (3)(A)5.B. of that rule, the system must provide documentation to the department within thirty (30) days of the total coliform-positive sample that the system met the department criteria. 
[(12)](11) Reporting Requirements for the Revised Total Coliform Rule. 
(A) E. coli. 1. A system must notify the department by the end of the day 
when the system learns of an E. coli MCL violation, unless the sys- tem learns of the violation after the department office is closed and the department does not have either an after-hours phone line or an alternative notification procedure, in which case the system must notify the department before the end of the next business day, and notify the public in accordance with 10 CSR 60-8.010. 
2. A system must notify the department by the end of the day when the system is notified of an E. coli-positive routine sample, unless the system is notified of the result after the department office is closed and the department does not have either an after-hours phone line or an alternative notification procedure, in which case the system must notify the department before the end of the next business day. 
(B) A system that has violated the treatment technique for col- iforms in 10 CSR 60-4.022(9) must report the violation to the depart- ment no later than the end of the next business day after it learns of the violation, and notify the public in accordance with 10 CSR 60- 8.010. 
(C) A system required to conduct an assessment under the provi- sions of 10 CSR 60-4.022(9) must submit the assessment report to the department within thirty (30) days. The system must notify the department in accordance with 10 CSR 60-4.022(9) when each scheduled corrective action is completed for corrections not complet- ed by the time of submission of the assessment form. 
(D) A system that has failed to comply with a coliform monitoring 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1843 

requirement must report the monitoring violation to the department within ten (10) days after the system discovers the violation and noti- fy the public in accordance with 10 CSR 60-8.010. 
(E) A seasonal system must certify to the department, prior to serving water to the public, that it has complied with the department- approved start-up procedure. 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed May 4, 1979, effective Sept. 14, 1979. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 8—Public Notification 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-8.010 Public Notification of Conditions Affecting a Public Water Supply. The department is amending (1)(A)9. and (2)(A)2.A., removing (2)(A)2.E., and renumbering thereafter, adding the term “turbidity” to (3)(A)2.A., removing a rule citation to (3)(B)2., changing a rule citation in (4)(A)2.D., adding clarifying language to (4)(C)2.D. and (5)(C)2., removing language in (11)(A)1. and 2., and correcting an error in (11)(A)3., and adding language to (11)(E)9. 
PURPOSE: The amendment corrects rule citations due to amend- ments to other regulations in 10 CSR 60, removes outdated rule lan- guage and provides clarification on existing regulations. 
(1) General Information and Requirements. (A) Types of Violations and Other Situations Requiring Public 
Notice. 1. Failure to comply with an applicable maximum contaminant 
level (MCL) or maximum residual disinfectant levels (MRDL). 2. Failure to comply with a prescribed treatment technique. 3. Failure to perform required water quality monitoring as 
required by drinking water regulations. 4. Failure to comply with testing procedures as prescribed by a 
drinking water regulation. 5. Operation under a variance or an exemption. 6. Failure to comply with the requirements of any schedule that 
has been set under a variance or exemption. 7. Special public notice. 8. Occurrence of a waterborne disease outbreak or other water- 
borne emergency. 9. Exceedance of the nitrate MCL by non[-]community water 
systems where granted permission by the department; 10. Exceedance of the secondary maximum contaminant level 
(SMCL) for fluoride. 11. Availability of unregulated contaminant monitoring data. 12. Other violations and situations determined by the depart- 
ment to require a public notice. 
(2) Tier 1 Public Notice. (A) Violation Categories and Other Situations Requiring a Tier 1 
Public Notice. 1. Tier 1 public notice is required for violations or other situa- 
tions with significant potential to have serious adverse effects on human health as a result of short-term exposure. 
2. Specific violations and other situations requiring Tier 1 notice include: 
A. [Violation of the MCL for total coliforms when fecal coliform or E. coli are present in the water distribution sys- tem as specified in 10 CSR 60-4.020(7)(B) until March 31, 2016, when the water system fails to test for fecal coliforms or E. coli when any repeat sample tests positive for coliform as specified in 10 CSR 60-4.020(5)(A) until March 31, 2016; or v]Violation of the MCL for E. coli as specified in [10 CSR 60-4.020(7)(C) beginning April 1, 2016] 10 CSR 60- 4.022(10)(A); 
B. Violation of the MCL for nitrate, nitrite, or total nitrate and nitrite, or when the water system fails to take a confirmation sample within twenty-four (24) hours of the system’s receipt of the first sample showing an exceedance of the nitrate or nitrite MCL; 
C. Exceedance of the nitrate MCL by non[-]community water systems where permitted by the department to exceed the MCL; 
D. Violation of the MRDL for chlorine dioxide, when one (1) or more samples taken in the distribution system the day following an exceedance of the MRDL at the entrance of the distribution system, exceed the MRDL, or when the water system does not take the required samples in the distribution system; 
[E. Violation of the maximum turbidity level where the sample results exceed five (5) nephelometric turbidity units (NTU);] 
[F.]E. Violation of a treatment technique requirement pur- suant to 10 CSR 60-4.050 resulting from a single exceedance of the maximum allowable turbidity limit, where the department deter- mines after consultation that the violation has significant potential to have serious adverse effects on human health or where the system fails to consult with the department within twenty-four (24) hours after the system learns of the violation; 
[G.]F. Occurrence of a waterborne disease outbreak or other waterborne emergency (such as failure or significant interruption in key water treatment processes, a natural disaster that disrupts the water supply or distribution system, or a chemical spill or unexpect- ed loading of possible pathogens into the source water that signifi- cantly increases the potential for drinking water contamination); 
[H.]G. Detection of E. coli, enterococci, or coliphage in source water samples as specified in 10 CSR 60-4.025(3)(A) and 10 CSR 60-4.025(3)(B); and 
[I.]H. Other violations or situations with significant potential to have serious adverse effects on human health as a result of short- term exposure, as determined by the department either in regulation or on a case-by-case basis. 
(C) Form and Manner of Tier 1 Public Notice. 1. The owner or operator of the public water system shall use 
the health effects language in section (11) of this rule for MCL vio- lations requiring Tier 1 public notice. 
2. Tier 1 public notice shall be provided within twenty-four (24) hours in a form and manner reasonably calculated to reach all per- sons served. The form and manner used by the public water system [are to] shall fit the specific situation [but shall] and be designed to reach residential, transient, and non[-]transient users of the water system[. In order to reach all persons served, water system shall use, at a minimum,] using one (1) or more of the following forms of delivery: 

Page 1844 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
A. Appropriate broadcast media, such as radio and televi- sion; 
B. Posting the notice in conspicuous locations throughout the area served by the water system; 
C. Hand delivery of the notice to persons served by the water system; or 
D. Another delivery method approved in writing by the department. 
(3) Tier 2 Public Notice. (A) Violation Categories and Other Situations Requiring a Tier 2 
Public Notice. 1. Tier 2 public notice is required for violations and other situ- 
ations with potential to have serious adverse effects on human health. 2. Specific violations and other situations requiring Tier 2 
notice. 
A. Tier 2 notice is required for violations of MCL, MRDL, or treatment technique requirements, except where a Tier 1 notice is required or where [the] a Tier 1 notice is determined by the department [determines that a Tier 1 notice is required], for the following: microbiological contaminants; inorganic contaminants (IOCs); synthetic organic contaminants (SOCs); volatile organic con- taminants (VOCs); radiological contaminants; disinfection byprod- ucts, byproduct precursors, and disinfectant residuals; treatment techniques for acrylamide, epichlorohydrin, turbidity, lead, and copper; and other situations determined by the department to require Tier 2 notice. Systems with treatment technique violations involving a single exceedance of a maximum turbidity limit under 10 CSR 60- 4.050 must initiate consultation with the department within twenty- four (24) hours of learning of the violation. Based on this consulta- tion the department may subsequently decide to elevate the violation to Tier 1. If a system is unable to make contact with the department in the twenty-four- (24-) hour period, the violation is automatically elevated to Tier 1. 
B. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of a vari- ance or exemption. 
C. Violations of the monitoring and testing procedure requirements where the department determines that a Tier 2 rather than a Tier 3 public notice is required, taking into account potential health impacts and persistence of the violation. This includes but is not limited to collecting no total coliform samples during the applic- able monitoring period at the discretion of the department. 
D. Failure to take corrective action or failure to maintain at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a department-approved combination of 4-log virus inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer under 10 CSR 60- 4.025(4)(A). 
(B) Timing of Tier 2 Public Notice. 1. Public water systems must provide the public notice as soon 
as possible, but not later than thirty (30) days after the system learns of the violation. If the public notice is posted, the notice must remain in place for as long as the violation or situation persists, but in no case for less than seven (7) days, even if the violation or situation is resolved. The department may, in appropriate circumstances, allow additional time for the initial notice of up to three (3) months from the date the system learns of the violation. The department will not grant an extension to the thirty- (30-) day deadline for any unresolved violation or provide across-the-board extensions for other violations or situations requiring a Tier 2 public notice. Extensions granted by the department will be in writing. 
2. The public water system must repeat the notice every three (3) months as long as the violation or situation persists, unless the department determines that appropriate circumstances warrant a dif- ferent repeat notice frequency. In no circumstance may the repeat notice be given less frequently than once per year. The department will not allow less frequent repeat notice for an MCL violation pur- suant to [10 CSR 60-4.020 or] 10 CSR 60-4.022 or a treatment technique violation pursuant to 10 CSR 60-4.050 or 10 CSR 60- 
4.052. The department will not allow across-the-board reductions in the repeat notice frequency for other ongoing violations requiring a Tier 2 repeat notice. The department’s determinations allowing repeat notices to be given less frequently than once every three (3) months will be in writing. 
3. For violations of the maximum turbidity level and for viola- tions of the treatment technique requirements pursuant to 10 CSR 60- 4.050 resulting from a single exceedance of the maximum allowable turbidity limit, public water systems must consult with the depart- ment as soon as practical but no later than twenty-four (24) hours after the public water system learns of the violation to determine whether a Tier 1 public notice is required to protect public health. When consultation does not take place within the twenty-four- (24-) hour period, the water system must distribute a Tier 1 notice of the violation within the next twenty-four (24) hours (that is, no later than forty-eight (48) hours after the system learns of the violation). 
(C) Form and Manner of Tier 2 Public Notice. Public water sys- tems must provide the initial public notice and any repeat notices in a form and manner reasonably calculated to reach persons served in the required time period. The form and manner of the public notice may vary based on the specific situation and type of water system but must, at a minimum, meet the following requirements: 
1. Unless directed otherwise by the department in writing, com- munity water systems must provide notice by: 
A. Mail or other direct delivery to each customer receiving a bill and to other service connections to which water is delivered by the public water system; and 
B. Any other method reasonably calculated to reach other persons regularly served by the system, if they would not normally be reached by mail or direct delivery. Such persons may include those who do not pay water bills or do not have service connection addresses (e.g., house renters, apartment dwellers, university stu- dents, nursing home patients, prison inmates, etc.). These other methods may include: publication in a local newspaper or newsletter; delivery of multiple copies for distribution by customers that provide their drinking water to others; posting in public places served by the system or on the Internet; or delivery to community organizations. 
2. Unless directed otherwise by the department in writing, non[-]community water systems must provide notice by: 
A. Posting the notice in conspicuous locations throughout the distribution system frequented by persons served by the system, or by mail or direct delivery to each customer and service connection (where known); and 
B. Any other method reasonably calculated to reach other persons served by the system if they would not normally be reached by posting in a conspicuous location, mail, or direct delivery. Such persons include those served who may not see a posted notice because the posted notice is not in a location they routinely pass by. These other methods may include: publication in a local newspaper or newsletter distributed to customers; use of e-mail to notify employees or students; or delivery of multiple copies in central loca- tions (e.g., community centers). 
(4) Tier 3 Public Notice. (A) Violation Categories and Other Situations Requiring a Tier 3 
Public Notice. 1. Tier 3 public notice is required for all other violations and 
situations not included in Tier 1 and Tier 2. 2. Specific violations and other situations requiring Tier 3 pub- 
lic notice include: A. Monitoring violations or failure to comply with a testing 
procedure, except where a Tier 1 notice is specifically required or where the department determines that a Tier 2 notice is required, for the following: microbiological contaminants; inorganic contaminants (IOCs); synthetic organic contaminants (SOCs); volatile organic con- taminants (VOCs); radiological contaminants; disinfection byprod- ucts, byproduct precursors, and disinfectant residuals; treatment techniques for lead and copper. Specific exceptions are listed under 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1845 

sections (2) and (3) of this rule; B. Operation under a variance or exemption; C. Exceedance of the fluoride SMCL; D. Reporting and recordkeeping violations under 10 CSR 60- 
4.022, 10 CSR 60-7.010[(12)](11), and 10 CSR 60-9.010(4)-(5); and 
E. Other violations or situations determined by the depart- ment either in regulation or on a case-by-case basis. 
(C) Form and Manner of Tier 3 Public Notice. Public water sys- tems must provide the initial notice and any repeat notices in a form and manner that is reasonably calculated to reach persons served in the required time period. The form and manner of the public notice may vary based on the specific situation and type of water system, but it must at a minimum meet the following requirements: 
1. Unless directed otherwise by the department in writing, com- munity water systems must provide notice by: 
A. Mail or other direct delivery to each customer receiving a bill and to other service connections to which water is delivered by the public water system; and 
B. Any other method reasonably calculated to reach other persons regularly served by the system, if they would not normally be reached by mail or other direct delivery. Such persons may include those who do not pay water bills or do not have service con- nection addresses (for example, house renters, apartment dwellers, university students, nursing home patients, prison inmates, etc.). Other methods may include: [P]publication in a local newspaper; delivery of multiple copies for distribution by customers that provide their drinking water to others (for example, apartment building own- ers or large private employers); posting in public places or on the Internet; or delivery to community organizations. 
2. Unless directed otherwise by the department in writing, non[-]community water systems must provide notice by: 
A. Posting the notice in conspicuous locations throughout the distribution system frequented by persons served by the system, or by mail or direct delivery to each customer and service connection (where known); and 
B. Any other method reasonably calculated to reach other persons served by the system, if they would not normally be reached by posting, mail, or direct delivery. Such persons may include those who may not see a posted notice because the notice is not in a loca- tion they routinely pass by. Other methods may include: [P]publica- tion in a local newspaper or newsletter distributed to customer; use of e-mail to notify employees or students; or, delivery of multiple copies in central locations (for example, community centers). 
(D) Use of Consumer Confidence Report to Meet Tier 3 Requirement. For community water systems, [T]the Consumer Confidence Report (CCR) may be used for the Tier 3 public notice as long as: 
1. The CCR is provided to persons served no later than twelve (12) months after the system learns of the violation or situation. 
2. The Tier 3 notice contained in the CCR follows the content requirements under section (5) of this rule; and 
3. The CCR is distributed following the delivery requirements under subsection (4)(C) of this rule. 
(5) Content of the Public Notice. (C) Presentation of the Public Notice. 
1. Each public notice: A. Must be displayed in a conspicuous way when printed or 
posted; B. Must not contain overly technical language or very small 
print; C. Must not be formatted in a way that defeats the purpose of 
the notice; D. Must not contain language which nullifies the purpose of 
the notice. 2. Each public notice must comply with multilingual require- 
ments[.] as follows: 
A. Where the department has determined the public water system serves a large proportion of non-English speaking consumers, the public notice must contain information in the appropriate lan- guage(s) regarding the importance of the notice or contain a tele- phone number or address where persons served may contact the water system to obtain a translated copy of the notice or to request assistance in the appropriate language[.]; 
B. Where the department has not made a determination regarding the proportion of non-English speaking consumers, the public notice must contain the same information as in subparagraph (5)(C)2.A. of this rule[.]; and 
C. Where the department has determined there is not a large proportion of non-English speaking customers, no multilingual requirement applies. 
(6) Notice to New Billing Units or Customers. (B) Non[-C]community Water Systems. Non[-]community water 
systems must continuously post the public notice in conspicuous locations in order to inform new consumers of any continuing viola- tion, variance, or exemption, or other situation requiring a public notice for as long as the violation, variance, exemption, or other sit- uation persists. 
(9) Special Public Notices. (A) Special Notice for the Availability of Unregulated 
Contaminant Monitoring Results. 1. Timing of the special notice. The owner or operator of a com- 
munity water system or nontransient non[-]community water system required to monitor for unregulated contaminants under Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Rule must notify persons served by the system of the avail- ability of the results of such sampling no later than twelve (12) months after the monitoring results are known. 
2. Form and manner of special notice. The form and manner of the public notice shall follow the requirements for a Tier 3 public notice. The notice shall also identify a person and provide the tele- phone number to contact for information on the monitoring results. 
(C) Special Notice for Nitrate Exceedances Above the MCL by Non[-]community Water Systems. 
1. The owner or operator of a non[-]community water system granted permission by the department to exceed the nitrate MCL shall provide notice to persons served according to the requirements for a Tier 1 notice. 
2. The owner or operator shall provide continuous posting of the fact that nitrate levels exceed ten (10) mg/L and the potential health effects of exposure, according to the requirements for Tier 1 notice delivery under section (2) and the content requirements under section (5) of this rule. 
(D) Special notice for repeated failure to conduct monitoring of the source water for Cryptosporidium and for failure to determine bin classification or mean Cryptosporidium level. 
1. The owner or operator of a community or non[-]community water system that is required to monitor source water under 10 CSR 60-4.052(2) must notify persons served by the water system that monitoring has not been completed as specified no later than thirty (30) days after the system has failed to collect any three (3) months of monitoring as specified in 10 CSR 60-4.052(2)(C). The notice must be repeated as specified in 10 CSR 60-8.010(3). 
2. Special notice for failure to determine bin classification or mean Cryptosporidium level. The owner or operator of a community or non[-]community water system that is required to determine a bin classification under 10 CSR 60-4.052(10) must notify persons served by the water system that the determination has not been made as required no later than thirty (30) days after the system has failed to report the determination as specified in 10 CSR 60-4.052(10)(E). The notice must be repeated as specified in 10 CSR 60-8.010(3). The notice is not required if the system is complying with a department- approved schedule to address the violation. 

Page 1846 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
3. Form and manner of the special notice. The form and manner of the public notice must follow the requirements for a Tier 2 public notice prescribed in subsection (3)(C) of this rule. The public notice must be presented as required in section (3) of this rule. 
4. Mandatory language that must be contained in the special notice. The notice must contain the following language, including the language necessary to fill in the blanks. 
A. The special notice for repeated failure to conduct monitor- ing must contain the following language: 
“We are required to monitor the source of your drinking water for Cryptosporidium. Results of the monitoring are to be used to deter- mine whether water treatment at the {treatment plant name} is suffi- cient to adequately remove Cryptosporidium from your drinking water. We are required to complete this monitoring and make this determination by {required bin determination date}. We did not mon- itor or test or did not complete all monitoring or testing on schedule and, therefore, we may not be able to determine by the required date what treatment modifications, if any, must be made to ensure ade- quate Cryptosporidium removal. Missing this deadline may, in turn, jeopardize our ability to have the required treatment modifications, if any, completed by the deadline required, {date}. For more informa- tion, please call {name of water system contact} of {name of water system} at {phone number}.” 
B. The special notice for failure to determine bin classifica- tion or mean Cryptosporidium level must contain the following lan- guage: 
“We are required to monitor the source of your drinking water for Cryptosporidium in order to determine by {date} whether water treatment at the {treatment plant name} is sufficient to adequately remove Cryptosporidium from your drinking water. We have not made this determination by the required date. Our failure to do this may jeopardize our ability to have the required treatment modifica- tions, if any, completed by the required deadline of {date}. For more information, please call {name of water system contact} of {name of water system} at {phone number}.” 
C. Each special notice must also include a description of what the system is doing to correct the violation and when the system expects to return to compliance or resolve the situation. 
(11) Standard Health Effects Language for Public Notification. (A) Microbiological Contaminants. 
1. Total Coliform. [Until March 31, 2016, “Coliforms are bacteria that are naturally present in the environment and are used as an indicator that other, potentially-harmful bac- teria may be present. Coliforms were found in more samples than allowed and this was a warning of potential problems.” Beginning April 1, 2016,] “Coliforms are bacteria that are natu- rally present in the environment and are used as an indicator that other, potentially harmful pathogens may be present or that a poten- tial pathway exists through which contamination may enter the drink- ing water distribution system. We found coliforms indicating the need to look for potential problems in the water treatment or distribution. When this occurs, we are required to conduct assessment(s) to iden- tify problems and to correct any problems that were found during these assessments.” 
2. E. coli. [Until March 31, 2016, “Fecal coliforms and E. coli are bacteria whose presence indicates that the water may be contaminated with human or animal wastes. Microbes in these waters can cause short-term effects, such as diarrhea, cramps, nausea, headaches, or other symptoms. They may pose a special health risk for infants, young chil- dren, some of the elderly, and people with severely compro- mised immune systems.” Beginning April 1, 2016,] “E. coli are bacteria whose presence indicates that the water may be contam- inated with human or animal wastes. Human pathogens in these wastes can cause short-term effects, such as diarrhea, cramps, nau- sea, headaches, or other symptoms. They may pose a greater health risk for infants, young children, the elderly, and people with severely 
compromised immune systems.” 3. Fecal indicators under the Ground Water Rule (E. coli, ente- 
rococci, coliphage). “Fecal indicators are microbes whose presence indicates that the water may be contaminated with human or animal wastes. Microbes in these [waters] wastes can cause short-term health effects, such as diarrhea, cramps, nausea, headaches, or other symptoms. They may pose a special health risk for infants, young children, some of the elderly, and people with severely compromised immune systems.” 
4. Treatment technique violations under the Ground Water Rule. “Inadequately treated or inadequately protected water may contain disease-causing organisms. These organisms can cause symptoms such as diarrhea, nausea, cramps, and associated headaches.” 
5. Revised Total Coliform Rule Treatment Technique violations for Coliform Assessment and/or Corrective Action. “Coliforms are bacteria that are naturally present in the environment and are used as an indicator that other, potentially harmful waterborne pathogens may be present or that a potential pathway exists through which con- tamination may enter the drinking water distribution system. We found coliforms indicating the need to look for potential problems in water treatment or distribution. When this occurs, we are required to conduct assessments to identify problems and to correct any prob- lems that are found. {THE SYSTEM MUST USE THE FOLLOWING APPLICABLE SENTENCES.} We failed to conduct the required assessment. We failed to correct all identified sanitary defects that were found during the assessment(s).” 
6. Revised Total Coliform Rule Treatment Technique violations for E. coli Assessment and/or Corrective Action. “E. coli are bacte- ria whose presence indicates that the water may be contaminated with human or animal wastes. Human pathogens in these wastes can cause short-term effects, such as diarrhea, cramps, nausea, headaches, or other symptoms. They may pose a greater health risk for infants, young children, the elderly, and people with severely compromised immune systems. We violated the standard for E. coli, indicating the need to look for potential problems in water treatment or distribution. When this occurs, we are required to conduct a detailed assessment to identify problems and to correct any problems that are found. {THE SYSTEM MUST USE THE FOLLOWING APPLICABLE SENTENCES.} We failed to conduct the required assessment. We failed to correct all identified sanitary defects that were found during the assessment that we conducted.” 
7. Revised Total Coliform Rule Seasonal System Treatment Technique violations. When this violation includes the failure to monitor for total coliforms or E. coli prior to serving water to the public, the mandatory language found at 10 CSR 60-8.010(5)(D)2. must be used. When this violation includes failure to complete other actions, the appropriate elements found in 10 CSR 60-8.010(5)(A) to describe the violation must be used. 
8. Turbidity. “Turbidity has no health effects. However, turbid- ity can interfere with disinfection and provide a medium for micro- bial growth. Turbidity may indicate the presence of disease-causing organisms. These organisms include bacteria, viruses, and parasites that can cause symptoms such as nausea, cramps, diarrhea, and asso- ciated headaches.” 
(B) Surface Water Treatment Rule (SWTR), Interim Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule (IESWTR), Long-Term 1 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule, and Filter Backwash Recycling Rule (FBRR) Violations. 
1. Giardia lamblia. “Inadequately treated water may contain disease-causing organisms. These organisms include bacteria, virus- es, and parasites which can cause symptoms such as nausea, cramps, diarrhea, and associated headaches.” 
2. Viruses. “Inadequately treated water may contain disease- causing organisms. These organisms include bacteria, viruses, and 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1847 

parasites which can cause symptoms such as nausea, cramps, diar- rhea, and associated headaches.” 
3. Heterotrophic plate count (HPC) bacteria. “Inadequately treated water may contain disease-causing organisms. These organ- isms include bacteria, viruses, and parasites which can cause symp- toms such as nausea, cramps, diarrhea, and associated headaches.” 
4. [Legionella] Legionella. “Inadequately treated water may contain disease-causing organisms. These organisms include bacte- ria, viruses, and parasites which can cause symptoms such as nau- sea, cramps, diarrhea, and associated headaches.” 
5. [Cryptosporidium] Cryptosporidium. “Inadequately treated water may contain disease-causing organisms. These organisms include bacteria, viruses, and parasites which can cause symptoms such as nausea, cramps, diarrhea, and associated headaches.” 
(E) Synthetic Organic Chemicals (SOCs). 1. 25. 2,4-D. “Some people who drink water containing the 
weed killer 2,4-D well in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their kidneys, liver, or adrenal glands.” 
2. 26. 2,4,5-TP (Silvex). “Some people who drink water con- taining silvex in excess of the MCL over many years could experi- ence liver problems.” 
3. Alachlor. “Some people who drink water containing alachlor in excess of the MCL over many years could have problems with their eyes, liver, kidneys, or spleen, or experience anemia, and may have an increased risk of getting cancer.” 
4. Atrazine. “Some people who drink water containing atrazine well in excess of the MCL over many years could experience prob- lems with their cardiovascular system or reproductive difficulties.” 
5. Benzo(a)pyrene (PAHs). “Some people who drink water con- taining benzo(a)pyrene in excess of the MCL over many years may experience reproductive difficulties and may have an increased risk of getting cancer.” 
6. Carbofuran. “Some people who drink water containing car- bofuran in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their blood, or nervous or reproductive systems.” 
7. Chlordane. “Some people who drink water containing chlor- dane in excess of the MCL over many years could experience prob- lems with their liver, or nervous system, and may have an increased risk of getting cancer.” 
8. Dalapon. “Some people who drink water containing dalapon well in excess of the MCL over many years could experience minor kidney changes.” 
9. Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate. “Some people who drink water con- taining di (2-ethylhexyl) adipate well in excess of the MCL over many years could experience [general] toxic effects [or] such as, weight loss, liver enlargement, or possible reproductive difficul- ties.” 
10. Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate. “Some people who drink water containing di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate in excess of the MCL over many years may have problems with their liver, or experience repro- ductive difficulties, and may have an increased risk of getting can- cer.” 
11. Dibromochloropropane (DBCP). “Some people who drink water containing DBCP in excess of the MCL over many years could experience reproductive difficulties and may have an increased risk of getting cancer.” 
12. Dinoseb. “Some people who drink water containing dinoseb well in excess of the MCL over many years could experience repro- ductive difficulties.” 
13. Dioxin (2,3,7,8-TCDD). “Some people who drink water containing dioxin in excess of the MCL over many years could expe- rience reproductive difficulties and may have an increased risk of get- ting cancer.” 
14. Diquat. “Some people who drink water containing diquat in excess of the MCL over many years could get cataracts.” 
15. Endothall. “Some people who drink water containing endothall in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their stomach or intestines.” 
16. Endrin. “Some people who drink water containing endrin in excess of the MCL over many years could experience liver prob- lems.” 
17. Ethylene dibromide. “Some people who drink water con- taining ethylene dibromide in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their liver, stomach, reproductive system, or kidneys, and may have an increased risk of getting can- cer.” 
18. Glyphosate. “Some people who drink water containing glyphosate in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their kidneys or reproductive difficulties.” 
19. Heptachlor. “Some people who drink water containing hep- tachlor in excess of the MCL over many years could experience liver damage and may have an increased risk of getting cancer.” 
20. Heptachlor epoxide. “Some people who drink water con- taining heptachlor epoxide in excess of the MCL over many years could experience liver damage, and may have an increased risk of getting cancer.” 
21. Hexachlorobenzene. “Some people who drink water con- taining hexachlorobenzene in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their liver or kidneys, or adverse reproductive effects, and may have an increased risk of getting can- cer.” 
22. Hexachlorocyclopentadiene. “Some people who drink water containing hexachlorocyclopentadiene well in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their kidneys or stomach.” 
23. Lindane. “Some people who drink water containing lindane in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their kidneys or liver.” 
24. Methoxychlor. “Some people who drink water containing methoxychlor in excess of the MCL over many years could experi- ence reproductive difficulties.” 
25. Oxamyl (Vydate). “Some people who drink water contain- ing oxamyl in excess of the MCL over many years could experience slight nervous system effects.” 
26. Pentachlorophenol. “Some people who drink water contain- ing pentachlorophenol in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their liver or kidneys, and may have an increased risk of getting cancer.” 
27. Picloram. “Some people who drink water containing piclo- ram in excess of the MCL over many years could experience prob- lems with their liver.” 
28. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). “Some people who drink water containing PCBs in excess of the MCL over many years could experience changes in their skin, problems with their thymus gland, immune deficiencies, or reproductive or nervous system difficulties, and may have an increased risk of getting cancer.” 
29. Simazine. “Some people who drink water containing simazine in excess of the MCL over many years could experience problems with their blood.” 
30. Toxaphene. “Some people who drink water containing toxaphene in excess of the MCL over many years could have prob- lems with their kidneys, liver, or thyroid, and may have an increased risk of getting cancer.” 
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed May 4, 1979, effective Sept. 14, 1979. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed June 13, 2018. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 

Page 1848 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be con- sidered, comments must be received by the close of the public com- ment period on August 23, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on August 16, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Bennett Springs Conference Room, 1730 East Elm Street, Jefferson City, MO 65101. 
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 8—Public Notification 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
10 CSR 60-8.030 Consumer Confidence Reports. The department is amending (2)(D)1.B. and C. and renumbering, removing (2)(D)3.B. and moving A. directly under 3., removing and replacing language from (2)(D)4.D. and (2)(D)4.D.(II), removing language from (2)(D)4.D.(III), removing language in (2)(G) and (H) and renumbering thereafter, removing a reference to the Code of Federal Regulations in (2)(E)1., removing a reference in (2)(F)6., removing language in (3)(B)(2) and moving 1., directly under (B), and remov- ing language from Appendix A, B, and C. 
PURPOSE: The amendment corrects rule citations due to amend- ments and rescissions of other regulations in 10 CSR 60 and removes outdated rule language and provides clarification on existing regula- tions. 
(2) Content of the Reports. (D) Information on Detected Contaminants. 
1. Subsection (2)(D) specifies the requirements for information to be included in each report for contaminants subject to mandatory monitoring (except Cryptosporidium). It applies to— 
A. Contaminants subject to an MCL, action level, maximum residual disinfectant level, or treatment technique (regulated contam- inants); and 
[B. Contaminants for which monitoring is required by 10 CSR 60-4.110 (unregulated contaminants); and] 
[C.]B. Disinfection by-products or microbial contaminants for which monitoring is required [by 40 CFR 141.142 and 141.143,] except as provided under paragraph (2)(E)1. of this rule, and which are detected in the finished water. 
2. The data relating to these contaminants must be displayed in one (1) table or in several adjacent tables. Any additional monitoring results which a community water system chooses to include in its report must be displayed separately. 
3. The data must be derived from data collected to comply with the Environmental Protection Agency and department monitoring and analytical requirements during the previous calendar year except that[—] 
[A. W]where a system is allowed to monitor for regulated contaminants less often than once a year, the table(s) must include the date and results of the most recent sampling and the report must include a brief statement indicating that the data presented in the report are from the most recent testing done in accordance with the regulations. The system may use the following language or similar language for their statement: “The state has reduced monitoring requirements for certain contaminants to less often than once per year because the concentrations of these contaminants are not expect- ed to vary significantly from year-to-year. Some of our data (e.g., for organic contaminants), though representative, is more than one (1) year old.” No data older than five (5) years need be included. 
[B. Results of monitoring in compliance with 40 CFR 141.142 and 141.143 need only be included for five (5) 
years from the date of last sample or until any of the detect- ed contaminants becomes regulated and subject to routine monitoring requirements, whichever comes first.] 
4. For detected regulated contaminants (listed in Appendix A, included herein), the table(s) must contain— 
A. The MCL for that contaminant expressed as a number equal to or greater than 1.0 (as provided in Appendix A, included herein); 
B. The MCLG for that contaminant expressed in the same units as the MCL; 
C. If there is no MCL for a detected contaminant, the table must indicate that there is a treatment technique, or specify the action level applicable to that contaminant, and the report must include the definitions for treatment technique and/or action level, as appropri- ate, specified in paragraph (2)(C)3. of this rule; 
D. For contaminants subject to an MCL, except turbidity, total coliform, fecal coliform and E. coli, the highest contaminant level used to determine compliance with 10 CSR 60-4.030; 10 CSR 60-4.040; 10 CSR 60-4.060; [10 CSR 60-4.090;] 10 CSR 60- 4.094; 10 CSR 60-4.100 and the range of detected levels, as follows (when rounding of results to determine compliance with the MCL is allowed by the regulations, rounding should be done prior to multi- plying the results by the factor listed in Appendix A, included here- in): 
(I) When compliance with the MCL is determined annual- ly or less frequently—the highest detected level at any sampling point and the range of detected levels expressed in the same units as the MCL; 
(II) When compliance with the MCL is determined by cal- culating a running annual average of all samples taken at a monitor- ing location—the highest average of any of the monitoring locations and the range of all monitoring locations expressed in the same units as the MCL. For the MCLs for total trihalomethanes (TTHM) and haloacetic acids 5 (HAA5) in [10 CSR 60-4.090(1)(D)] 10 CSR 60-4.094, systems must include the highest locational running annual average for TTHM and HAA5 and the range of individual sample results for all monitoring locations expressed in the same units as the MCL. If more than one (1) location exceeds the TTHM or HAA5 MCL, the system must include the locational running annual aver- ages for all locations that exceed the MCL; and 
(III) When compliance with the MCL is determined on a system-wide basis by calculating a running annual average of all sam- ples at all monitoring locations—the average and range of detection expressed in the same units as the MCL[. The system is required to include individual sample results for the Initial Distribution System Evaluation (IDSE) conducted under 10 CSR 60- 4.092 when determining the range of TTHM and HAA5 results to be reported in the annual consumer confidence report for the calendar year that the IDSE samples were taken]; 
E. For turbidity, the highest single measurement and the low- est monthly percentage of samples meeting the turbidity limits spec- ified in 10 CSR 60-4.050. 
(I) The report should include an explanation of the reasons for measuring turbidity, such as: “Turbidity is a measure of the cloudiness of water. We monitor turbidity because it is a good indi- cator of the effectiveness of our filtration system.” 
(II) If an explanation of the reasons for measuring turbidity is included, it does not have to be included in the table but may be added as a footnote or narrative associated with the table; 
F. For lead and copper, the ninetieth percentile value of the most recent round of sampling, the number of sampling sites exceed- ing the action level in that round, and the most recent source water results; 
[G. For total coliform analytical results until March 31, 2016. 
(I) The highest monthly number of positive compli- ance samples for systems collecting fewer than forty (40) samples per month; or 
 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1849 

(II) The highest monthly percentage of positive compliance samples for systems collecting at least forty (40) samples per month; 
H. For fecal coliform and E. coli, until March 31, 2016, the total number of positive compliance samples;] 
[I.]G. The likely source(s) of detected regulated contaminants to the best of the operator’s knowledge. Specific information regard- ing contaminants may be available in sanitary surveys and source water assessments, and should be used when available to the opera- tor. If the operator lacks specific information on the likely source, the report must include one (1) or more of the typical sources for that contaminant which are most applicable to the system. The typical sources for a given contaminant are listed in Appendix B, included herein; and 
[J.]H. For E. coli analytical results under 10 CSR 60-4.022, the total number of positive samples. 
5. If a community water system distributes water to its cus- tomers from multiple hydraulically independent distribution systems that are fed by different raw water sources, the table should contain a separate column for each service area and the report should iden- tify each separate distribution system. Alternatively, systems could produce separate reports tailored to include data for each service area. 
6. The table(s) must clearly identify any data indicating viola- tions of MCLs or treatment techniques and the report must contain a clear and readily understandable explanation of the violation includ- ing: the length of the violation, the potential adverse health effects, and actions taken by the system to address the violation. To describe the potential health effects, the system must use the relevant language of Appendix C, included herein. 
7. For detected unregulated contaminants for which monitoring is required (except Cryptosporidium), the table(s) must contain the average and range at which the contaminant was detected. When detects of unregulated contaminants are reported, the report may include a brief explanation of the reasons for monitoring for unregu- lated contaminants using language such as: “Unregulated contami- nants are those for which EPA has not established drinking water standards. The purpose of unregulated contaminant monitoring is to assist EPA in determining the occurrence of unregulated contami- nants in drinking water and whether future regulation is warranted. Information on all the contaminants that were monitored for, whether regulated or unregulated, can be obtained from this water system or the Department of Natural Resources.” 
(E) Information on Cryptosporidium, Radon, and other Contaminants. 
1. If the system has performed any monitoring for 
Cryptosporidium, [including monitoring performed to satisfy the requirements of 40 CFR 141.143,] which indicates that Cryptosporidium may be present in the source water or the finished water, the report must include: 
A. A summary of the results of the monitoring; and 
B. An explanation of the significance of the results. The sys- tem may use the following language or similar language for the expla- nation: “Cryptosporidium is a microbial parasite which is found in surface water throughout the U.S. Although Cryptosporidium can be removed by filtration, the most commonly used filtration methods cannot guarantee one hundred percent (100%) removal. Monitoring of our source water and/or finished water indicates the presence of these organisms. Current test methods do not enable us to determine if these organisms are dead or if they are capable of causing disease. Symptoms of infection include nausea, diarrhea, and abdominal cramps. Most healthy individuals are able to overcome the disease within a few weeks. However, immuno-compromised people have more difficulty and are at greater risk of developing severe, life threatening illness. Immuno-compromised individuals are encour- aged to consult their doctor regarding appropriate precautions to take to prevent infection. Cryptosporidium must be ingested for it to cause disease, and may be passed through other means than drinking water.” 
2. If the system has performed any monitoring for radon which indicates that radon may be present in the finished water, the report must include: 
A. The results of the monitoring; and 
B. An explanation of the significance of the results. The sys- tem may use the following language or similar language for the expla- nation: “Radon is a naturally occurring gas present in some ground water. It poses a lung cancer risk when the radon gas is released from water into air (as occurs during showering, bathing, or washing dish- es or clothes), and a stomach cancer risk when you drink water con- taining radon. Radon gas released from drinking water is a relatively small part of the total radon in air. Other sources of radon gas are soils which enter homes through foundations, and radon inhaled directly while smoking cigarettes. Experts are not sure exactly what the cancer risk is from a given level of radon in your drinking water. If you are concerned about radon in your home, test kits are available to determine the total exposure level.” 
3. If the system has performed additional monitoring which indicates the presence of other contaminants in the finished water, systems are encouraged to report any results which may indicate a health concern. To determine if results may indicate a health con- cern, the department recommends that systems find out if the Environmental Protection Agency has proposed a National Primary Drinking Water Regulation or issued a health advisory for that con- taminant by calling the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (800-426-4791). Detects above a proposed MCL or health advisory level may indicate possible health concerns. For such contaminants, the department rec- ommends that the report include: 
A. The results of the monitoring; and 
B. An explanation of the significance of the results noting the existence of a health advisory or a proposed regulation. 
(F) Compliance with Department Regulations. In addition to the requirements of paragraph (2)(D)6., the report must note any viola- tion that occurred during the year covered by the report of a require- ment listed below, and include a clear and readily understandable explanation of the violation, any potential adverse health effects, and the steps the system has taken to correct the violation. 
1. Monitoring and reporting of compliance data. 
2. Filtration and disinfection prescribed by 10 CSR 60-4.055. For systems which have failed to install adequate filtration or disin- fection equipment or processes, or have had a failure of such equip- ment or processes which constitutes a violation, the report must include the following language as part of the explanation of potential adverse health effects: “Inadequately treated water may contain dis- ease-causing organisms. These organisms include bacteria, viruses, and parasites which can cause symptoms such as nausea, cramps, diarrhea, and associated headaches.” 
3. Lead and copper control requirements prescribed by 10 CSR 60-15. For systems which fail to take one (1) or more actions pre- scribed by 10 CSR 60-15.010(4), 10 CSR 60-15.020, 10 CSR 60- 15.030, 10 CSR 60-15.040, or 10 CSR 60-15.050, the report must include the applicable language of Appendix C to this rule for lead, copper, or both. 
4. Treatment techniques for Acrylamide and Epichlorohydrin prescribed by 10 CSR 60-4.040(9). For systems which violate the requirements of 10 CSR 60-4.040(9), the report must include the rel- evant language from Appendix C to this rule. 
5. Record keeping of compliance data. 
[6. Special monitoring requirements prescribed by 10 CSR 60-4.110.] 
[7.]6. Violation of the terms of a variance, an exemption, or an administrative or judicial order. 
(3) Required Additional Health Information. (B) Arsenic. 
[1.] A system that detects arsenic at levels above 0.005 mg/L and up to and including 0.01 mg/L must include in its report a short informational statement about arsenic, using language such as: “While your drinking water meets EPA’s standard for arsenic, it does 

Page 1850 
Proposed Rules 
July 16, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 14 
contain low levels of arsenic. EPA’s standard balances the current understanding of arsenic’s possible health effects against the costs of removing arsenic from drinking water. EPA continues to research the health effects of low levels of arsenic, which is a mineral known to cause cancer in humans at high concentrations and is linked to other health effects such as skin damage and circulatory problems.” The system may write its own educational statement, but only in consul- tation with the department. 
[2. Beginning in the report due by July 1, 2002, and ending January 22, 2006, a community water system that detects arsenic above 0.01 mg/L and up to and including 0.05 mg/L must include the arsenic health effects language prescribed by Appendix C of this rule.] 
(4) Report Delivery and Record Keeping. (A) Systems serving ten thousand (10,000) or more persons must 
mail or otherwise directly deliver one (1) copy of the report to each customer annually. 
